.. title: 0.4.1
.. slug: 0-4-1
.. date: 2012-12-20 16:40:11 UTC+13:00
.. tags: 
.. category: 
.. link: 
.. description: 
.. type: text
.. author: FracPete

Downloads
=========

* Linux/Unix/Windows: `zip <bin_>`__
* Mac OSX: `app <app_>`__, `doc <doc_>`__, `flows <flows_>`__

.. _bin: https://adams.cms.waikato.ac.nz/releases/adams/adams-all-0.4.1-bin.zip
.. _app: https://adams.cms.waikato.ac.nz/releases/adams/adams-all-0.4.1-app.zip
.. _doc: https://adams.cms.waikato.ac.nz/releases/adams/adams-all-0.4.1-doc.zip
.. _flows: https://adams.cms.waikato.ac.nz/releases/adams/adams-all-0.4.1-flows.jar


Highlights
==========

* Added 40 new actors, resulting in almost 4.1 actors for a wide range of
  domains available now.
* Doubled the number of conversion schemes to almost 80, available through the
  Convert transformer.
* New module for heatmap support available.
* Much improved spreadsheet support: import/export from/to databases, improved
  memory efficiency, readers for WEKA file formats, filtering of rows/columns
  possible.
* Built-in sqlite database support.
* Comes now with attribute selection capability (WEKA).
* Movie generation using the FFmpeg sink.
* Flow editor offers a temporary clipboard for storing an arbitrary number of
  flow fragments, allows user to temporarily bookmark actors.
* Updated and extended the documentation for the modules.

Launching ADAMS
===============

* Linux/Unix/OSX: ``bin/run``
* Windows: ``bin/run.bat``
* OSX: open the app archive

**Mac users** using the app archive need to tell ADAMS where to find the
example flows (see above for download). The **Placeholders.props** file needs to be
`downloaded <https://adams.cms.waikato.ac.nz/resources/Placeholders.props>`_ to
``$HOME/.adams`` and the ``EXAMPLE_FLOWS`` directory in the props file
pointed to the actual directory with the example flows.


