.. title: Updates 2021/04/12
.. slug: updates-2021-04-12
.. date: 2021-04-12 12:21:00 UTC+12:00
.. tags: 
.. status: 
.. category: 
.. link: 
.. description: 
.. type: text
.. author: FracPete

More work was done on the adams-matlab module and on image annotation support.

**Fixes**

* The *SelectArraySubset* transformer now updates its JList correctly when getting
  subsequently called, not just the first time round.
* Very long cell values in tables (> 1000 characters) now get excluded from 
  calculating the optimal column width to avoid slow calculation and extremely 
  wide tables.
* *adams-meta:* The *InactiveStandalone/Source/Transformer/Sink* actors now copy
  the actors provided to the constructors rather than just using the reference.
* *adams-spreadsheet:* Formulas in spreadsheets now resolve values of cell references
  to their native value, not just trying to convert it to double.
* *adams-weka* and *adams-weka-lts*: 
  
  * The *WekaAttributeSelection* transformer no longer puts the ranked order of 
    attributes back into sorted order.
  * Changing the attribute weights in an Instances table now gets applied to the
    correct column when displaying the instance weights column.
  * Exporting the output to PDF no longer duplicates the content of text files
    (due to two exporters available).
  * The *Data generator* source in the Weka Investigator works again.
  * String and relational values no longer get rendered as HTML as this turned
    out to be too slow when displaying a table.


**Changes**

* *adams-weka:* upgraded multisearch-weka-package to 2021.2.17
* *adams-spreadsheet:* deprecated SpreadSheetCommonIDs, SpreadSheetDifference in favor of MultiSpreadSheetOperation
* *adams-timeseries:* upgraded timeseriesForecasting Weka package to 1.1.27
* *adams-matlab:* the *Mat5SpreadSheetReader* can now retrieve arrays from struct objects as well
* *adams-weka* and *adams-weka-lts*: 

  * Attribute weights now get displayed in the header row when showing weights.
  * The *Revert* action in the Weka Investigator now monitors files for changes (last modified timestamp)
    and gets enabled when either the file on disk got changed or it has been modified in the
    Investigator itself.
  * The *SimpleArffLoader* and *SimpleArffSaver* now allow the user to specify the file encoding.


**Additions**

* The *MapToStorageValues* transformer transfers a map object into internal storage.
* *adams-imaging:* 
  
  * The *ConfusionMatrix* plugin for the *ImageSegmentationContainerOperation*
    transformer generates a confusion matrix of the annotated pixels versus predicted ones
    and the *CountPixels* one simply outputs a spreasdheet with counts per layer (of non-black pixels).
  * The *IndexedPNGImageHandler* for the Preview browser allows overriding the colors of 
    PNG files that use an indexed color palette, e.g., when output by image segmentation
    models.
  * The *BlueChannelImageHandler* (using the new *BlueChannelColorizer* image transformer 
    under the hood), interprets the values in the blue channel of an image as color indices
    and applies the colors from the supplied color provider accordingly.

* *adams-spreadsheet:* added the *MultiSpreadSheetOperation* transformer which applies the
  specified operation to the incoming spreadsheet array (CommonIDs, Sum, Difference, Merge).
* The *HasProperty* boolean condition can be used to check whether objects have a certain 
  property name, e.g., when updating object values via the UpdateProperty transformer.
* *adams-matlab:* 

  * The *MatlabStructToMap* conversion turns a Matlab struct object into a map (field/array relation).
  * The *IsMatlabStruct* boolean condition checks whether the token represents a Matlab struct object.
  * The *MatlabStructInfo* transformer allows outputting information on a Matlab struct object.
  * With the flow *adams-matlab-inspect_file.flow* you can inspect .mat files interactively.

* *adams-weka* and *adams-weka-lts*: The *Text directory* source in the Weka Investigator 
  allows the loading of directories with plain text documents as datasets.

