.. title: Updates 2019/03/15
.. slug: updates-2019-03-15
.. date: 2019-03-15 10:39:00 UTC+13:00
.. tags: 
.. category: 
.. link: 
.. description: 
.. type: text
.. author: FracPete

Fixed a bunch of little bugs and also worked on many minor improvements in the user interface.

A new Weka classifier got added: XGBoost, though currently only available for Linux/Mac.

The database backend within ADAMS has been further abstracted and now allows 
mirroring (ie replicating the queries on another server). Useful when trying to use
a backup database server.

**Fixes**

* Pasting of actors no longer generates long name suffixes consisting of *(x) (y) (z) ...*
* *EnterManyValues:* date types now get inserted with their string representation into a map.
* Histoy lists, like used in the Weka Investigator, now prompt the user when selecting 
  *Remove all* from the popup menu, whether they really want to remove X entries.
* The generates() method of the *StringConstants* source now outputs the class that the 
  selected conversion generates (proper compatibility check).
* The *Close/cleanup* and *Remove graphical output* actions in the Flow editor now close 
  any Debug views as well.
* Row plots in spreadsheet tables (eg Spreadsheet file viewer) no longer sub-sample 
  points if the same number of points was selected.
* Fixed incorrect path handling when placeholders present: *Command*, *Exec*, 
  *Java*, *SimpleStringReplace*, *StringInsert*, *StringReplace*.
* *Command* source now launches the commands again.
* *adams-python*: fixed incorrect path handling when placeholders present: 
  *PipExec*, *PythonExec*, *PythonVenvExec*.
* *adams-spreadsheet*: 

  * fixed incorrect path handling when placeholders present: 
    *SpreadSheetInsertColumn*, *SpreadSheetInsertRow*, *SpreadSheetReplaceCellValue*.
  * entering multiple values through the GenericArrayEditor now works again in the 
    *Spreadsheet file viewer* (Java decided to place the dialog behind all other windows).

* *adams-rats*: fixed incorrect path handling when placeholders present:
  *Exec* (rat input and output).
* *adams-weka* and *adams-weka-lts*: Row plots in instances tables (eg Weka Investigator) 
  no longer sub-sample points if the same number of points  was selected.


**Changes**

* Changed the *Compare actors* menu item in the Flow editor's tree popup menu into 
  a sub-menu with *Just actors* (original functionality) and *Sub-flows* (additional) 
  as menu items.
* Added support for unordered ranges: *adams.core.UnorderedRange*
* External actor files are now being monitored and reloaded/reexpanded if necessary 
  through the GenericObjectEditor.
* The *ArrayProcess* control actor now has an optional variable for storing the index 
  of the current element being processed (1-based index).
* Added *FILE_FORWARD_SLASHES* variable type, which generates a filename with forward 
  slashes. Affects transformers/standalones: *SetVariable*, *SetManyVariables*.
* The *Switch* control now has a *lenient* option, which drops the requirement of the
  token having a payload (eg the *Start* source generates a null token, simply to kick
  off things).
* Removed module *adams-phmm4weka*.
* *adams-spreadsheet:* 

  * Added support for unordered ranges: *adams.data.spreadsheet.SpreadSheetUnorderedColumnRange*
  * The *SpreadSheetReorderColumns* transformer now uses SpreadSheetUnorderedColumnRange
    for its *order* option.
  * The *SpreadSheetJoinColumns* conversion now uses SpreadSheetUnorderedColumnRange
    for its *columns* option, allowing for out-of-order joins.
  * Disabled *Spreadsheet Explorer* in the menu for the time being.
  * Added support for overlaying a diagonal in the scatter plot (via a second data series):
    enable *addDiagonalSeries* in the *DefaultXY* dataset. Affects *JFreeChartPlot*
    and *JFreeChartFileWriter*.
  * Added *History* button to the *Query* tab.

* *adams-weka* and *adams-weka-lts*: 

  * Added support for unordered attribute ranges: *adams.data.weka.WekaUnorderedAttributeRange*
  * The *Weka Investigator* now allows moving its tabs (like Preprocessing and Classify) via 
    the *Move tab to* submenu in the tab's popup menu.

* *adams-spectral-2dim-core:* 

  * added ability to *Update Sample data* dialog to work off sample IDs obtained from a spreadsheet.
  * SpectrumT and SampleDataT are no longer directly accessed, but through facades,
    which allows swapping out of backend (e.g., introduce mirroring).

* *adams-rats:* 

  * The *RatControl* actor now has a *Console* button in the user interface,
    which allows the display of the last X lines that occurred in the console.
  * The type of log object generated from errors and sent to the *log* actor 
    (if available) is now defined via the AbstractLogObjectGenerator class hierarchy.

* *adams-cntk-weka* and *adams-cntk-weka-lts*: moved CNTKPyroProxy classifier from into 
  new module adams-python-weka(-lts) and renamed it to PyroProxy, as it is framework-agnostic.
* *adams-pdf:* The *PDF Viewer* switched from multi-tab layout to multi-page.



**Additions**

* Added the *DeleteVariable* and *DeleteStorageValue* standalones.
* Added the *Configure option handler* tool (developer mode) that allows configuring any
  option handler.
* *adams-weka* and *adams-weka-lts*: i

  * added the *GraphSource* serialized object preview handler for weka.core.Drawable objects, 
    which outputs the graph source code (dot or XML BIF).
  * added the *GraphSource* output for the Investigator's Classify/Cluster tabs, which outputs the
    graph source (dot or XML BIF) for weka.core.Drawable classifiers/clusterers.
  * added *WekaDatasetsMerge* transformer, an alternative to *WekaInstancesMerge* for merging
    multiple Weka Instances objects into one (side-by-side). This transformer can be selected in
    the *Weka Investigator* now as well for merging datasets (Preprocess panel, data table actions).
  * The *XGBoost* classifier got added (using https://github.com/dmlc/xgboost) - currently only
    for Linux/Mac.
  * The *Weka Multi-Experimenter* now has a table-based results panel as well.

* *adams-spectral-2dim-core:* 

  * added *List Sample data* dialog which lists all sample data for the selected spectra in a single table.
  * added *Delete Sample data* dialog which allows removal of specified sample data values from the 
    selected spectra.
  * no longer storing *Dummy report* flag in sample data table.

* *adams-spreadsheet*: 

  * spreadsheet tables now allow sorting on multiple columns using via the
    *Sort...* menu item of the table's popup menu.
  * added query panel for meta-data to the SQL Workbench tool

