.. title: Updates 2018/03/02
.. slug: updates-2018-03-02
.. date: 2018-03-0 17:00:07 UTC+13:00
.. tags: 
.. category: 
.. link: 
.. description: 
.. type: text
.. author: FracPete

A few changes in terms of modules occurred: all *-stable* modules have been renamed 
to *-lts* (long term support) and moved to the new *adams-lts* repository 
(https://github.com/waikato-datamining/adams-lts). Furthermore, experimental
support for the MongoDB NoSQL database has been added.

**Fixes**

* The *CheckActorReferenceUsage* flow processor now skips actors that are disabled,
  in other words, a disabled callable actor won't get moaned about if not used.
* Added missing setting of variable *BASEDIR* in the following batch files:
  daemon.bat, exec.bat, logging.bat
* Updating of properties, e.g., with the *UpdateProperty* transformer, now handles
  arrays properly: the value string is interpreted as blank-separated list and the
  array constructed from those elements.
* The dialog size of showInputDialog method (e.g., when renaming an actor) is now 
  adjusting a bit more to the input.
* The flow used by *System performance* (from the *Help* menu) is now working
  again properly.
* *adams-weka* and *adams-weka-lts*: introduced custom aggregation of Evaluation 
  objects (Relative absolute error and Root relative squared error will differ a bit
  due to different handling of training priors - still buggy in Weka ATM),
  affecting *WekaAggregateEvaluations*, *WekaCrossValidationExecution*, *RemoveOutliers*
  and *WekaSpreadSheetToPredictions*.
* *adams-rats:* The *FileLister* rat input now empties the queue when returning an array.
* *adams-spreadsheet:* The parser for the expression used by *SpreadSheetQuery* handles 
  negative numbers now correctly.


**Changes**

* Updated the section in the manual on how to install an ADAMS flow as daemon (Linux, systemd)
  and service (Windows, NSSM).
* Added methods 'replaceext' (replacing file extension) and 'ext' (extracting file extension) 
  to parsers *BooleanExpression*, *MathematicalExpression* and *StringExpression*.
* Added help menu items in the Flow editor for: variables, boolean/math/string expressions
* Combined help display of GenericObjectEditor and Class help.
* *adams-spreadsheet:* The formula of conversions *SpreadSheetAddFormulaColumn* 
  and *SpreadSheetAddFormulaRow* can contain variables now that get expanded before 
  inserting it into the spreadsheet.
* *adams-rats:* The *ChangeRatState* control actor no longer checks whether the specified 
  Rat actors are present if a variable is attached to the "rats" property (the one listing 
  the names).
* *adams-weka* and *adams-weka-lts*: 

  * added mxexpression-weka-package dependency, offering filter and classifier that use 
    mathematical expression to update target attribute or make prediction, using the 
    mXparser library (https://sourceforge.net/projects/mxparser/).
  * Class help in the GUI is now in HTML; help in GenericObjectEditor is now showing full help.
  * The *WekaCrossValidationEvaluator* now has an option (*finalModel*) to build a
    model on the full dataset. Automatically implies that a container is being output.


**Additions**

* The *GroupByRegExp* transformer allows generating groups of strings from array 
  using a regular expression and a grouping expression, e.g., "(.*)-RGB.*" as regexp 
  and "$1" for grouping them.
* Added some of Eric Eaton's Java utility classes located at:
  http://www.seas.upenn.edu/~eeaton/software/Utils/Utils.zip
* Added conversions *MathExpression* and *StringExpression* for better efficiency 
  when processing spreadsheets (using *SpreadSheetConvertCells* instead of 
  *SpreadSheetTransformCells*).
* The *File monitor* tool allows you to monitor files that get appended, like log
  files, outputting all the new data added to the files.
* *adams-spectral-2dim-core:*

  * The *NewSpectrum* source allows the creation of a new spectrum.
  * With *GetSpectrumAmplitude* the amplitude of the specified wave number can be retrieved.
  * *SetSpectrumAmplitude* allows you to set the amplitude of the specified wave number
    or simply add a new spetrum point.

* Added module *adams-mongodb* for basic MongoDB support.
* *adams-weka* and *adams-weka-lts*: added ability to upload currently best setup in 
  classifier-based genetic algorithms via a setup upload scheme, e.g., in a MySQL database.

