.. title: new
.. slug: new
.. date: 2024-12-06 16:43:00 UTC+13:00
.. tags: 
.. status: 
.. category: 
.. link: 
.. description: 
.. type: text
.. author: FracPete

Wide range of fixes, changes and additions. Notably are the addition of basic
git support in the Flow editor (to be enabled in the Preferences dialog) and
support for the H2 SQL database (e.g., for adhoc, in-memory use). Also, Weka's
evaluation can be interrupted now a bit better, e.g., between cross-validation
folds and while evaluating a classifier. Some ADAMS-only classifiers received an
overhaul to allow interrupting their build process as well. The adams-nlp
module has been retired, due to security concerns of some of its third-party 
libraries and the amount of work that would have been required to keep it going.

**Fixes**

* *adams-core:* 

  * fixed race condition when clearing the buffer in the *DumpFile* sink 
    (e.g, when initiated from a RatControl)
  * image panels now zoom in/out on the mouse position when possible
  * the list of connections in the database connections panel is now sorted
  * the *Flow editor* now handles loading flows that do not exist better

* *adams-groovy:* The Groovy conversion and actors handle variables attached to the 
  *scriptFile* and *inlineScript* options now properly.
* *adams-imaging:* The *ImageLabeler* no longer enforces the data type of the field 
  to be STRING to address problem on not being able to enter value in the GOE, instead
  the data type is checked in the setUp() method.
* *adams-moa:* fixed race condition when clearning the buffer in the *MOAInstanceDumper* 
  sink (e.g, when initiated from a RatControl)
* *adams-rat-core:* clicking the stop button of a RatControl panel no longer locks the
  UI, instead the stopping now works asynchronously, informing the user via status
  messages in the RatControl panel.
* *adams-weka* and *adams-weka-lts*: 

  * fixed race condition when clearing the buffer in the *WekaInstanceDumper* sink 
    (e.g, when initiated from a RatControl)
  * fixed serialization issue in the Weka Investigator when copying tabs


**Changes**

* Password fields now have a button to show/hide the password as well as a popup menu
  for show/hide and copy/paste.
* Process actors that generate graphical output can now be detached from the tabbed
  pane on the right hand side in the Flow editor.
* *adams-core:* 

  * upgraded processoutput4j to 0.0.14
  * upgraded mysql-connector-j to 9.1.0
  * added instructions to the manual on how to configure SSL connections for MySQL

* *adams-db:* added support for the H2 database (https://www.h2database.com/)
* *adams-jep:* upgraded jep to 4.2.1
* *adams-maps:* upgraded postgis-jdbc to 2024.1.0
* *adams-ml:* The *RemoveOutliers* control actor now allows toggling of outliers that
  fall within a polygon (SHIFT+left-click for vertices, SHIFT+right-click to finalize polygon)
  and also undo/redo.
* *adams-net:* retired the Telnet interface
* *adams-pdf:* upgraded icepdf-core/icepdf-viewer to 7.2.1 to address GHSA-v435-xc8x-wvr9, 
  GHSA-m44j-cfrm-g8qc, GHSA-8xfc-gm6g-vgpv and GHSA-4h8f-2wvx-gg5w
* *adams-rsync:* upgraded rsync4j to 3.3.0-2
* *adams-spectral-2dim-core:* 

  * The *SpectrumDbReader* transformer now only outputs a warning message regarding missing 
    container (ie didn't find spectrum in DB) in lenient mode when the silent flag is not set.
  * The *PostProcessor* transformer now checks if its post-processor scheme can be stopped
    when the actor receives the request to stop.
  * The *Evaluator* transformer now checks if its evaluator scheme can be stopped when the
    actor receives the request to stop.
  * The *Cleaner* transformer now checks if its cleaner scheme can be stopped when the
    actor receives the request to stop.

* *adams-weka* and *adams-weka-lts*: 

  * introduced a variant of the Weka Evaluation class which can be interrupted more 
    easily, e.g., during cross-validation and evaluation of a test set.
  * disambiguating tab titles now in the *Weka Investigator* to avoid confusion in the logs

* *adams-xml:* upgraded xstream to 1.4.21 to address CVE-2024-47072


**Additions**

* *adams-git:* new module with basic support for add/commit/pull/push in the *Flow editor*
  (needs to be disabled first via the preferences dialog).
* *adams-spectral-2dim-core:* added the *PredictionErrorIQR* post-processor algorithm that removes
  rows from the data which prediction errors are above the upper threshold based
  on the prediction IQR.
* *adams-security:* added page *Trust store* in global preferences dialog for specifying a Java 
  trust store, e.g., to be used when connecting via SSL to MySQL databases.
* *adams-weka* and *adams-weka-lts*: The *LWLSynchroSplit* lazy classifier allows the 
  search space to be differently filtered than the data that the base classifier is 
  then trained on.


**Retired**

* *adams-nlp* module

