.. title: Updates 2021/12/02
.. slug: updates-2021-12-02
.. date: 2021-12-02 15:54:00 UTC+13:00
.. tags: 
.. status: 
.. category: 
.. link: 
.. description: 
.. type: text
.. author: FracPete

The lead up to the Weka Conference on November 26th (https://events.waikato.ac.nz/events/2021-international-weka-user-conference/) 
resulted in a lot of minor bug fixes and improvements. I've also started retiring some
of the modules that are no longer being used/useful.


**Fixes**

* Fixed issue of the Flow editor locking up (occasionally) when debugging flows; 
  the cause was a race condition of two debugging control panels getting generated, 
  with the incorrect one replacing the other one.
* Fixed duplicate class cache initialization, resulting in faster start-up time.
* Position and size of applications launched from main menu now get properly 
  recorded when closing the applications.
* Reduced startup time of applications that use file choosers, avoiding unnecessary
  clipboard lookups.
* *adams-imaging:* 

  * The object annotator now uses the correct zoom when initially displaying the image.
  * Image segmentation annotation no longer has the *darkening* bug when adding layers.

* *adams-weka* and *adams-weka-lts*: 

  * Convert to Date/Nominal/String in the *Weka Investigator's* Preprocess panel 
    now works with numeric attribute names as well.
  * The *SimpleArffSaver* and *SpreadSheetSaver* converters no longer use
    resetOptions() to initialize their options with default values.
  * The *WekaCrossValidationEvaluator* now stops execution properly and cleans up 
    without causing NullPointerException.


**Changes**

* moved discontinued modules into *adams-discontinued* repo 
  (https://github.com/waikato-datamining/adams-discontinued):

  * adams-cntk
  * adams-cntk-weka
  * adams-image-webservice
  * adams-imaging-imagemagick
  * adams-imaging-opemimaj
  * adams-jooq
  * adams-meka-webservice
  * adams-mongodb
  * adams-weka-nd4j
  * adams-weka-nd4j-lts
  * adams-weka-webservice

* The GenericObjectEditor now displays the help within the same dialog/frame to 
  avoid help window disappearing behind other windows when opened from a modal
  dialog/frame. The drop-down button/menu next to the classname now has a 
  *Use default* menu which reverts the current settings back to the default ones.
* *adams-webservice:* upgraded CXF to 3.4.5, xercesimpl to 2.12.1, jaxb to 3.0.2
* *adams-bootstrapp:* upgraded bootstrapp to 0.1.11
* *adams-net:* upgraded tika-core to 1.27, requests4j to 0.2.2
* *adams-moa:* upgraded MOA to 2021.07.0
* *adams-core:* 

  * upgraded jclasslocator to 0.0.19
  * jfilechooser-bookmarks updated to 0.1.8 for better clipboard handling
  * removed DocBookProducer for generating DocBook XML from setups (not feasible for large flows)

* *adams-weka* and *adams-weka-lts*: The *WekaPredictionsToInstances* and
  *WekaPredictionsToSpreadSheet* transformers now handle attribute names in the 
  test attributes option.

* *adams-redis* and *adams-rats-redis*: switched to the lettuce.io Redis Java client


**Additions**

* *adams-weka* and *adams-weka-lts*: 

  * The *LeaveOneOutByValueGenerator* split generator generates pairs using the unique 
    values from a specified attribute, with each unique value being in the test set and 
    the remainder in the training set.
  * The *MultiRowProcessor* instance filter identifies rows with a row selection scheme
    and then processes them with a row processing scheme, e.g., for averaging multiple
    scans of the sample.

