.. title: Updates 2016/06/17
.. slug: updates-2016-06-17
.. date: 2016-06-17 15:07:07 UTC+13:00
.. tags: updates
.. category: 
.. link: 
.. description: 
.. type: text
.. author: FracPete

Many little fixes and improvements again. The PDF generation got overhauled to make
it easier generating PDFs from files.


**Fixes**

* *adams-weka:* The *Weka Instance Explorer* now correctly shows the options
  dialog of the loader (modal issue).
* *adams-spreadsheet:* The *Spreadsheet Explorer* now correctly shows the options
  dialog of the reader (modal issue).
* The *Help -> Memory* visualization works again.
* The default flow format now uses the user-specified encoding now correctly.
* *adams-spectral-core:* filtering the spectral table in the Spectrum Explorer now
  uses the correct colors in the reduced view.


**Changes**

* *adams-pdf:* 

  * Upgraded PDFBox dependency to 2.0.1
  * *PDFExtractImages* transformer now outputs BufferedImageContainer objects 
    instead of just BufferedImage objects.
  * PDF proclets (used by PDFCreate transformer) now can use a regular expression
    on the filename to further limit the matching (not just the file extension).
  * The following PDF proclets now offer absolute positioning: 
    Image, PlainText, SpreadSheet.

* Scripting (general/Groovy/Jython): pushed initialization of scripts from setUp() 
  into preExecute() method to allow use of variables.
* The *Swap* operation in the Flow editor now transfers variables as well.
* *adams-weka:* upgraded multisearch package to 2016.6.6.
* *FileUtils.loadFromFile* now removes byte order marks (BOMs) from UTF-16/UTF-32 
  encoded files.
* The Flow editor now keeps track of flow reader/writer setups and stores the flow 
  reader setups in "recent files" now as well. This now allows a simple  *save* 
  action for different file encodings instead of requiring a *save as* action.
* The *OptionUtils.shallowCopy* method (when expand=false) now transfers the 
  Variables instance and ensures that current variable values are set. Useful
  when creating instances inside actors (or further nested classes) that have
  variables attached.
* *adams-spectral-core:* the *Evaluator* transformer now can obtain the actual
  evaluator from a callable actor as well, not just from a file with the
  serialized setup.
* *adams-twitter:* upgraded twitter4j library to 4.0.4. I noted that they newer
  version of the library may not be as stable as the old one. However, there
  were other problems with the old version. You win some, you lose some.
* *adams-excel:* upgraded Apache POI to 3.14.


**Additions**

* It is now possible to print the content of a flow's notification area as well, not
  just copy to clipboard or save it.
* *adams-pdf:*

  * Added *PDFRenderPages* transformer, which renders pages from a PDF as images.
  * added PDF proclets (used by PDFCreate transformer): Circle, Line, NewPage, Rectangle
  * Using *PDFNewDocument*, *PDFAppendDocument* and *PDFCloseDocument* it is now possible
    to use the PDF proclets in a more targeted fashion, as PDFAppendDocument allows
    to specify a specific file.
  * Added *PDFInfo* transformer for outputting information on PDF files.

* *adams-spectral-core:* 

  * added reader/writer for ASCII XY data format (wavenumber <SEP> amplitude).
  * added more instance evaluators: CrossValidatedNeighborHood, DistanceToClosest, 
    DistanceToCenter, SavitzkyGolayRange

* actors for handling *java.util.Map* objects: NewMap, GetMapValue, SetMapValue
* boolean condition for dealing with *java.util.Map* objects: HasMapValue
* *adams-spreadsheet:* conversions for converting to and fro *java.util.Map*
  objects: MapToSpreadSheet, SpreadSheetToMap


**Note for developers**

If you want to have the fastest possible build, use the following command-line (does not generate any PDF manuals, skips the unit tests and does not generate license files):

``mvn clean install -DskipTests=true -Dlicense.skipAddThirdParty=true -Dlatex.dummyBuild=true``

