.. title: Updates 2021/01/28
.. slug: updates-2021-01-28
.. date: 2021-01-28 17:27:00 UTC+13:00
.. tags: 
.. status:
.. category: 
.. link: 
.. description: 
.. type: text
.. author: FracPete

Since I'll be out of the office the next few weeks, just a quick update on
what has happened since the last post:

**Fixes**

* Restricted stopping is now working as expected in conjunction with 
  *LocalScopeTransformer* and *LocalScopeTrigger*.
* *adams-event:* The (internal) schedulers are now per flow rather than global, 
  i.e., the same flow can be run in parallel and stopped without affecting 
  the other instance.


**Changes**

* Switched to using Java 11 for builds, but source and target version are 
  still Java 8 for the time being.
* The *LineByLineTextReader* now has a -max-lines option to limit the number 
  of lines read.
* *adams-webservice:* upgraded Apache CXF to 3.3.9
* *adams-excel:* upgraded Apache POI to 3.17
* *adams-event:* updated quartz-scheduler to 2.3.2
* *adams-imaging:* The *ObjectCentersOverlayFromReport*, *ObjectLocationsOverlayFromReport*
  and *ObjectLocationsOverlayFromSpreadSheet* overlays (and corresponding plugins for
  the Preview browser) now allow varying the color of the shape as well. This is
  useful when displaying mostly one type of object in the image.


**Additions**

* The *ZipArrays* source actor allows the row-based iteration through arrays
  of the same length that are available in storage (like Python's *zip* operation).
* *adams-weka* and *adams-weka-lts*: added *FFT* filter (unsupervised, attribute).
* Added *adams-matlab* module for reading/writing binary Matlab .mat files.
* *adams-imaging:* 

  * The *ApplyMask* multi-image operation applies an image mask to another image 
    (pixels in image get set to black if mask pixel is black).
  * The *ObjectAnnotationsMask* BufferedImage transformer applies the object
    annotations in an image's report to the image and sets all other pixels to 

