.. title: Updates 03/06/2016
.. slug: updates-2016-06-03
.. date: 2016-06-03 16:27:07 UTC+13:00
.. tags: update
.. category: 
.. link: 
.. description: 
.. type: text
.. author: FracPete


A major change affecting everyone using snapshots: I incremented the 
snapshot version to **16.6.0-SNAPSHOT**.

**Fixes**

* The *Locate actor* menu item in the flow editor now parses output 
  from the console properly again (also handles the new flow ID).
* *adams-spreadsheet:* 

  * *SpreadSheetDifference* with no key columns set computed the 
    difference between the same cell, instead of between the cells 
    from sheet 1 and 2.
  * *SpreadSheetDbReader* handles timezones now correctly.
  * The conversions *SpreadSheetStringColumnToTime* and *SpreadSheetStringColumnToTimeMsec*
    now have a sensible default format.


**Changes**

* The logging output of actors now also includes the (at runtime) unique 
  ID of the flow to make it easier to distinguish output when running
  multiple flows in parallel.
* The following spreadsheet readers now implement *WindowedSpreadSheetReader*
  as well (offering options *firstRow* and *numRows*):

  * FixedTabularSpreadSheetReader
  * ODFSpreadSheetReader
  * GnumericSpreadSheetReader
  * ExcelSpreadSheetReader
  * ExcelStreamingSpreadSheetReader

* *adams-spectral:* 

  * batch filters are now handled in the spectrum explorer automatically when 
    filtering spectra with a batch filter.
  * the *SpectrumPaintlet* now always paints the markers, not just when zoomed in.

* The *search* text field in the GenericObjectEditor's class tree now gets
  the focus automatically when being displayed.
* The *EnterManyValues* source now allows date/time expressions
  for the time/date/datetime types, as supported by BaseTime/BaseDate/BaseDateTime.
  (eg ``NOW -1 DAY`` for an initial date value).
* *SequenceToArray* and *SequenceToCollection* can now generate bundled outputs 
  with overlaps. E.g. 1,2,3,4 with overlap=1 will get packaged as (1,2),(2,3),(3,4).
* *adams-weka:* 

  * upgraded multisearch Weka package to 2016.5.31.
  * *WekaInstanceViewer* sink now has options for color-provider and paintlet, as 
    well as an updater (to speed up the visualization).

* The *EnterManyValues* source actor now offers the ability to enter strings
  that are constrained by a regular expression (eg for entering an email address).
  This is done via the *RegExpConstrainedStringDefinition*.


**Additions**

* *adams-net:* added *Send error report* menu item (under *Program*), which 
  allows the user to send an error report to a support email address.
  Email support needs to be configured and a support email address supplied
  to make this feature available. 
* *adams-spectral-core:*

  * *SpectrumDisplay* sink now allows specifying a paintlet and color provider.
  * New *SimpleSpectrumPaintlet* comes without any markers, in contrast to
    *SpectrumPaintlet*.

* *adams-weka:* added the *SimpleInstanceLinePaintlet* paintlet to be used in
  conjunction with the *WekaInstanceViewer* sink.
* *adams-spreadsheet:*

  * The *Spreadsheet Explorer* offers similar functionality for viewing 
    spreadsheets as the *Weka Instance Explorer*, but without any
    dependencies on Weka.
  * The *SpreadSheetRowViewer* sink displays rows from a spreadsheet as line
    plots.

Have a nice long Queen's Birthday weekend - if it applies to you!
