.. title: Updates 2019/07/03
.. slug: updates-2019/07/03
.. date: 2019-07-03 16:49:00 UTC+12:00
.. tags: 
.. status: 
.. category: 
.. link: 
.. description: 
.. type: text
.. author: FracPete

Been spending a lot of time lately on sorting out Debian package generation for
Maven projects. The .deb packages available for download now make it 
easier to install ADAMS on Debian systems (and derivatives like Ubuntu). This
includes installing them inside Docker containers. The MySQL JDBC driver is back to
the old version due to a problem introduce with 6.x (my bug report is linked below).

**Fixes**

* *adams-weka* and *adams-weka-lts*: The number of threads defined in the JobRunner used
  for cross-validation in the *Classify* tab of the *Weka Investigator* is no longer
  getting ignored.
* *adams-rats:* fixed a race condition in the *FileLister* rat input scheme when used
  inside a *Cron* one, which occurred when the Cron was triggering faster than the 
  file listing was moving the files, resulting in multiple outputs.


**Changes**

* reverted MySQL driver back to 5.1.42, due to driver listing columns from table from 
  any database that the database user has access to - file a bug report with MySQL
  regarding this https://bugs.mysql.com/bug.php?id=95717
* upgraded processoutput4j to 0.0.10
* upgraded jclasslocator to 0.0.14
* obsolete *provenance* support has been completely removed.
* The new *ListSelectionValueDefinition* class, to be used with the *EnterManyValues* source,
  is targed at pre-defined lists with a pre-selected default value (rather than just using
  the first list item as the DefaultValueDefinition only offers).
* The *SequentialDirectory*, as used by the *Sequence* control actor (and therefore by a
  lot of other actors internally) has seen speed improvements for large sequences that 
  contain multiple disabled/skipped actors. Code for storing output from last active
  actor in such a sequence has been optimized as well. In some cases, this reduced the
  actor execution overheads by 20 percent. NB: these overheads may be trivial to the
  other operations executed in the sequence itself. In order for this to work properly,
  variable support has been disabled for the *skip* option of actors.
* introduced *lenient* flag in *AbstractDataContainerDbReader* which only outputs warnings 
  instead of generating errors when containers cannot be loaded from DB.
* Class names (ADAMS and JDK ones) are now better hyperlinked in the GUI help frame.
* *adams-video:* updated vljc dependency to 3.12.1 (VLC player works again on Linux Mint 19.1).


**Additions**

* The *ArrayBinning* statistic applies selected binning algorithm/postprocessing.
* added module *adams-scripts-debian* for generic scripts to be used in debian packages
* *adams-applications:* after forking the abandoned debian-maven project (http://debian-maven.sf.net/ 
  to https://github.com/fracpete/debian-maven-plugin) and reworking the code base extensively, 
  support for generating .deb install packages for Debian was added.
  and Ubuntu, using *deb:package* maven target.
* *adams-meta:* The *CurrentFlow* source outputs the flow itself, with optional expansion 
  of variables using their current state. Useful when trying to store the state of a flow
  at a certain time or when auto-generating flows.
* *adams-spreadsheet:*

  * With the *MakeJFreeChartDataset* transformer, you can generate datasets for JFreeChart
    plots or file writers.
  * The *StorageJFreeChartDataset* transformer allows you to add data series to an existing
    JFreeChart dataset in storage, e.g., when combining plots from multiple spreadsheets.

