.. title: new
.. slug: new
.. date: 2025-12-11 17:19:00 UTC+13:00
.. tags: 
.. status:
.. category: 
.. link: 
.. description: 
.. type: text
.. author: FracPete

Good news: Java 25 is now supported for running ADAMS! There is also density-based
scatter plots available (great for actual vs predicted regression plots), many
performance improvements (mostly for spectral processing), support for a new plotting
library called XChart (since the JFreeChart project has been retired), and also
an experimental *Step over* button in the debug panel of the Flow editor (skips 
actor/sub-flow).


**Fixes**

* *adams-core:* 

  * fixed positioning of right-click menu on combobox of suggested classnames 
    in the GenericObjectEditor.
  * Converting filenames to placeholder ones now favors the shortest placeholders
    if there is a tie between two placeholders in how much they are reducing the
    length of the filename.
  * The spreadsheet formula parser now handles the NOT/AND/OR functions.
  * Spreadsheets can opt to just store formulas now but never evaluated them, e.g.,
    for preserving formulas with functions that are not supported by ADAMS
    (spreadsheet reader option *onlyStoreFormulas*); output of stacktraces from
    parse errors of formulas can be suppressed with the *quiet* option of readers.
  * The *Show changes* menu item in the Flow editor's *Edit* menu works again
    (stopped working due to changes to the underlying format used for the undos).
  * The *Statistics* menu option in the *View* menu of the Flow editor now allows
    generating statistics below a certain actor rather than just the full flow:
    it prompts the user if an actor other than the root one is selected.
    A fast statistic overview over the full flow can always be generated via
    the *File > Properties* menu option and then clicking on the *Statistics* button.
  * Tables that support column filters can apply multiple column filters now.
  * The *Recent actor processors* menu item in the Flow editor (menu *Edit*) is now
    more robust and handles non-existent actor processors now - a scenario that
    can occur when switching between ADAMS applications that have different modules.
  * Fixed performance bottlenecks of AbstractDataContainer-derived classes 
    (addAll, getClone). Outlier detectors are now much faster when they create a
    copy of the container before adding their notes.

* *adams-compress:* The *NewArchive* source can have a variable attached to the 
  output option now without causing an error that the output is pointing to a directory.
  
* *adams-spectral-2dim-core:* 

  * Fixed performance isses of filters like DownSample, SubRange, SavitzkyGolay etc
    by adding data points via the new *replaceAll* method in ordered fashion,
    avoiding costly insertion/sorting.


**Changes**

* *adams-applications:* 

  * Debian package dependencies now support Java 25 as well.
  * Added adams-rats-net as dependency to *adams-annotator* application.

* *adams-core:* 

  * The *GenericObjectEditor* can load/save gzip-compressed object
    setups now as well, if they have the *.model.gz* or *.ser.gz* extension.
    *.txt* is now a supported extension for command-line and nested command-line
    formats as well.
  * The *CirclePaintlet* now can fill in the circles as well.
  * The *Standalones* standalone actor can execute its sub-actors now in paralle
    as well, if that should make sense.
  * The timed actors *TimedSoure*, *TimedSubProcess*, *TimedTee* and *TimedTrigger*
    will output the timing either via logger or just on stdout if there is no
    callable actor specified and optional is ticked.
  * The *Sleep* control actor now allows indefinite sleeping.
  * The *EndlessLoop* template now uses a Sleep actor with indefinite sleeping, to
    avoid interfering with debugging.
  * The *Branch* actor can now remove the upper limit for number of threads.
  * *IncVariable* and *IncStorageValue* can now suppress notifications being sent
    to change listeners, useful for variables in high-throughput scenarios that
    are only used as a counter.
  * Added support for binary files to the *SplitFile* transformer and the *MergeFiles* sink.
  * Changing the logging level no longer calls the *reset()* method, allowing
    on-the-fly changing of levels.
  * The *Deserialize* transformer now allows updating the logging level.
  * Added an experimental *Step over* button to the debug panel in the Flow editor, which
    allows skipping of actors and sub-flows for faster debugging.

* *adams-groovy:* Upgraded Groovy to 5.0.3 to make it compatible with Java 25.

* *adams-net:* Upgraded tika-core to 3.2.2 to address CVE-2025-66516

* *adams-scripts* and *adams-scripts-debian*: All scripts now add the flag
  `--enable-native-access=ALL-UNNAMED` for Java 17 and later.

* *adams-spectral-2dim-core:* 

  * The *ZippedSpectrumReader* now supports companion files (.txt) that list
    sample IDs that are to be ignored. That way, the archives don't need to 
    be updated but spectra can still be excluded from being loaded.
  * The *MinMax* spectrum outlier now allows turning on/off the lower/upper
    bounds for the checks to make it easier to just enforce one bound.

* *adams-spreadsheet:*

  * The *JFreeChartPlot* and *JFreeChartFileWriter* sinks now have watermark
    support as well.


**Additions**

* *adams-core:*

  * General support for watermarks within ADAMS, available as general and
    XYSequence paintlets, which can be used for branding. 
    Can be specified in the *Weka Investigator* in the *Classifier Errors*
    as overlay paintlet.
  * Added *ExtractGroup*, *ExtractID*, *UpdateGroup* and *UpdateID* transformers.
  * Added *StandaloneSubFlow* standalone actor that can define its own mini-subflow,
    but still operates within the same variable/storage space.
  * Added the *ReportValueMatches* boolean flow condition that checks whether
    the specified report field has a specific value.
  * Added the *Xor* boolean condition which outputs the logical XOR (exclusive OR)
    of the result of the two base boolean conditions.
  * Added the *DirChanged* transformer with its class hierarchy of schemes for
    determining whether a directory has changed.
  * Added the *DirChanged* boolean flow condition and *DirMonitor* flow restart
    trigger that use the new directory change monitor class hierarchy.
  * Added a class hierarchy for updating logging levels in objects.
  * Added the *UpdateLoggingLevel* transformer for updating the logging levels
    of objects passing through using the new class hierarchy of updater schemes.

* *adams-excel:* Added the *FastExcelSpreadSheetReader/Writer* plugins for reader
  and writing MS Excel xslx spreadsheets.

* *adams-spectral-2dim-core:* 

  * Added the *SpectrumSupplier* source that outputs spectra compared to the
    SpectrumIdSupplier, which only outputs DB IDs or sample IDs.

* *adams-spreadsheet:*

  * Added the *DensityScatterPlot* chart generator for JFreeChart-based charts/plots,
    supporting binning/histogram and kernel density estimation (KDE).
  * Added the *HasCell* boolean condition that checks whether the cell at the
    specified location is present, non-missing and non-empty. Optionally, can
    check against a specific value as well.
  * Added support for plotting using the XChart library (https://github.com/knowm/XChart): 
    XChartFileWriter, XChartPlot, MakeXChartDataset, StorageXChartAddDataset.

* *adams-weka* and *adams-weka-lts*: 

  * Added dummy classifier *AttributeAsPredictionClassifier* (package functions) that 
    outputs the value of the specified attribute as prediction (workaround for making 
    use of co-variables in Stacking).
  * Added *UpdateStackingNumFolds* actor processor.
  * Added *MinMax* evaluation metric which outputs the min/max class value for numeric
    class attributes in the evaluation summary output.
  * The *EvaluationMetricManager.props* config file allows enabling/disabling ADAMS-specific
    Weka evaluation metrics.
  * The *MathExprClassRegressor* meta-classifier allows one to specify a transform
    and inverse-transform expression for converting the class values for the base
    classifier. Default setup uses the same expressions as LogClassRegressor.

