.. title: new
.. slug: new
.. date: 2017-12-20 10:00:07 UTC+13:00
.. tags: 
.. category: 
.. link: 
.. description: 
.. type: text
.. author: FracPete

Last updates post before I'm getting stuck in making a new release...


A lot of things have happened in the image processing space again and a neat new
feature in spreadsheet and instances tables (Spreadheet viewer, Weka Investigator)
is being able to set filter strings or regular expressions per table column. This
is column specific filtering, whereas the search box filters across the whole 
table.

**Fixes**

* The compact format for saving flows no longer stores the default actors along-side 
  (in some cases).
* The *Preview browser* now transfers the search terms as well when opening a new 
  window.
* Date-based chooser panels: setting the current date value now before displaying the 
  dialog and automatically disposing the dialog once closed.
* *adams-net:* *SimpleApacheSendEmail* can handle attachments now.
* *adams-spreadsheet:* In the *LookUpUpdate* rules, variables can contain "." now as well; 
  fixed replacing of '' around variables (replaced [] instead).
* *adams-weka:* 

  * fixed rendering of missing values when sorting the data in the data 
    tab of the *Weka Investigator*,
  * The evaluation statistics Bias, RPD, R^2 and SDR are now skipping missing value predictions.

* *adams-rats:* The *FileLister* input now has a flag to turn on reporting of moving errors.
* *adams-video:* The *FixedIntervalBufferedImageSampler* image sampler now handles the
  offset correctly when set to "-Inf".


**Changes**

* Upgraded snake yaml to 1.19.
* Menu items can have their category (ie the menu that they appear in) now reassigned 
  via the *Main.props* file: ``Category-<classname>=<menu name>``
* Added the following programmatic variables to the flows: project_name, project_home,
  project_modules.
* The *Continue* control actor got renamed to *Block*, which is a bit more intuitive
  in the flow environment (though it works like the *continue* control statement in 
  Java).
* Added placeholders for TODAY, TOMORROW, YESTERDAY (using the start of day) to
  BaseDate, BaseDateTime and BaseDateTimeMsec.
* *LocalScopeTransformer* can now finish the processing of data before stopping
  (*atomic execution*).
* The *SequencePlotter* plot popup menu now has a *Hits* submenu, which allows you
  to perform operations on the sequences that the mouse is hovering over.
* The *Flow editor* has a new window operation for moving the current flow tab to 
  a new editor window.
* added *MATH_EXPRESSION_ROUND* enum to the *SetVariable* and *SetManyVariables* 
  actors, which rounds the result to a long.
* Any ADAMS panel with axis now allows copy/paste of axis range (in *Range* dialog),
  to speed up transfer of settings.
* *adams-spreadsheet:* 

  * The *LookUpUpdate* parser no longer transfers back local variables (ie ones 
    starting with an underscore).
  * Added "CONNECTION" meta-data type for outputting URL, database, user, password
    to the *DatabaseMetaData* source.
  * Added support for supplying a filter (simple string or regexp) per column.

* *adams-imaging:*

  * *GetImageObjectIndices* is more flexible now, by using an object finder for
    locating the objects of interest.
  * The *ImageObjectFilter* now allows you to apply an object filter to the images 
    that the object finder located.
  * *ScaleReportObjects* has been deprecated, instead you can use the *ImageObjectFilter*
    in conjunction with the *Scale* object filter.
  * The generators of the *SubImages* BufferedImage transformer now limit the objects
    in a sub-image to the ones that fall into that region.
  * *ImageObjectInfo* transformer now accepts *LocatedObject* objects as well
    (eg as output by *GetImageObjects*).
  * upgraded zxing to 3.3.1 (used for barcode detection/generation)

* *adams-rats:* The *Rat* standalone can now finish the processing of data before 
  stopping (*atomic execution*).

* *adams-spectral-2dim-core:* 

  * The *Rebase* spectrum filter can change the step size 
    between wave numbers now as well.
  * The plot popup menu of the spectrum panel now has a *Hits* submenu, which allows you
    to perform operations on the spectra that the mouse is hovering over.

* *adams-weka:* Added support for supplying a filter (simple string or regexp) per column
  to table displaying Instances.


**Additions**

* Added boolean condition for matching strings with a regular expression:
  *RegExp*.

* *adams-imaging:* 

  * added new class hierarchy for filtering objects stored in reports
    (e.g., annotations).
  * With the *ChangeImageObjectPrefix* transformer, you can replace the
    prefix of objects in the image's report. Allows to combine annotations
    and predictions in one report, using separate overlays when displaying
    the image.
  * *GetImageObjects* outputs all the objects located by the specified finder.
  * *GetImageObjects* outputs objects of type LocatedObject identified by the 
    specified finder scheme, instead of their indices like 
    *GetImageObjectIndices* does. Allows for querying meta-data etc via the
    *ImageObjectInfo* transformer.
  * *ImageObjectOverlap* computes the overlap of objects between two reports.
  * Added the following operations for the *Draw* transformer:
    ObjectCentersFromReport, ObjectLocationsFromReport
  * The *ImageObjectIndexOffset* transformer changes the offset of the objects 
    in the report by the specified amount. Useful when merging multiple reports.
  * *MultiQRCode* barcode decoder allows detection of multiple QR codes in a
    single image.
  * The *DownSample* BufferedImageTransformer is a simple scheme for downsizing
    images.
  * Added the erode/dilate morphology operations.
  
* *adams-spectral-2dim-core*:

  * The *PredictionCheck* transformer allows the validaton of the evaluations in an 
    EvaluationContainer, e.g., checking whether they are within a predefined range.
  * spectrum filter for adding the output of a prebuilt Weka filter to the spectrum's 
    report: *WekaFilterToReport*.

Stay tuned for the release!

