.. title: Updates 2016/11/14
.. slug: updates-2016-11-14
.. date: 2016-11-14 11:17:07 UTC+13:00
.. tags: 
.. category: 
.. link: 
.. description: 
.. type: text
.. author: FracPete

Didn't manage to get this one out on Friday, been way too busy with preparations for
`ACML 2016 <http://acml-conf.org/2016/>`__, which we're hosting this week here at 
Waikato.

Oh, in regards to last night's earthquake here in NZ: everyone at Waikato
is safe. Our thoughts go out to the people around NZ that suffered from this quake.

**Fixes**

* The *directory chooser* dialog now reloads the bookmarks before showing the dialog
  (in case they got modified in another dialog).
* The table model for reports now performs searches in the values of the fields as
  well, not just the names of the fields.
* ``AdamsCommandLineHandler.setOptions`` method now correctly resets the options to
  default ones before applying the supplied options.
* *adams-weka:* 
  
  * *Weka Investigator*
  
    * The *Stop* buttons in the Preprocess/Classify tab now work as expected 
      (stopping worked, but didn't update the buttons).
    * deleting attributes or instances in the data tab now updates the preprocess
      panel accordingly.
    * Moving datasets up or down now correctly updates the comboboxes listing the
      available datasets (e.g., in the Classify tab).
    * Moving tabs no longer clears their result history.


**Changes**

* The *SequencePlotter* now allows you to save only the *visible* data to a spreadsheet 
  as well.
* window titles are now getting prefixed with the hostname (if available), to make it 
  easier locating windows when logged in multiple remote machines.
* Plots now allow the modification of their paintlets through the right-click menu.
* Added ``-minimal-window`` option to the ``AbstractApplicationFrame`` class to avoid 
  main frame being extended to full screensize.
* *adams-imaging:* upgraded zxing barcode library to 3.3.0.
* *adams-pdf:* The PdfProclets have been extended to allow processing of objects rather 
  than just files; The *PDFAppendDocument* transformer now can process objects from 
  storage as well.
* *adams-spectral-core:* JCampDX2SpectrumReader now handles files with multiple pages.
* *adams-spreadsheet:* The *ScatterPlot* chart of the Spreadsheet file viewer can now 
  plot circles or crosses with specified diameter and overlays.
* *adams-visualstats:* The *ScatterPlot* now allows you to save the data and the 
  visible data to a spreadsheet.
* *adams-weka:* 
  
  * *Weka Investigator* 
  
    * Now allows you to export all currently displayed outputs (attribute selection, 
      classification, clustering): to a directory, to a ZIP file (requires ``adams-compress``), 
      to a PDF file (requires ``adams-pdf``), or via email (requires ``adams-net``).
    * Whole tabs like Classify can be copied now as well, including their current history.
    * The *Export* action of the data table has been renamed to *Save*.
    * The data tab now caches tables for faster display (and keeping any custom column sizes).
    * Operations in investigator (loading files, copying tabs, obtaining data from sources) 
      can be stopped now.

  * Weka classes are now using the ADAMS GenericObjectEditor in the GUI.
  * Weka classes now display their full help in the *Class help* tool (available from the 
    *Help* menu).


**Additions**

* *adams-nlp:* added ptstemmer 2.0.0 weka package dependency.
* *adams-spectral-core:* added Weka file loader for FOSS CAL files called *CALSpectrumLoader*.
* *adams-spreadsheet:* added convenience reader/writer for tab-separated values (TSV) files.
* *adams-weka:* 

  * *Weka Investigator*:

    * The output tabs in the *Weka Investigator* (attribute selection, classify, cluster)
      now support copying the content to the clipboard as well.
    * A new class hierarchy for updating the relation name of files being loaded is now 
      available (e.g., based on file name or attribute name).
    * Added (optional) model size to investigator's run information (classify/cluster tabs).

  * Added new *PLS* filter that uses class hierarchy of PLS implementations, with PLS1 and 
    SIMPLS as the currently available implementations.

