.. title: Updates 2023/04/17
.. slug: updates-2023-04-17
.. date: 2023-04-17 11:48:00 UTC+12:00
.. tags: 
.. status: 
.. category: 
.. link: 
.. description: 
.. type: text
.. author: FracPete

Never seem to get around posting all the changes that are happening... Most notably, there is
now a default new theme in ADAMS using the FlatLAF look and feel, a modern theme for Java Swing.
A lot of work went into the imaging modules again, now with more flexibility in terms of
how to annotate (polygons: tracing or clicking) and support for custom tools. The new *adams-imaging-ext*
module incorporates deep-learning based tools that aid the user in annotating images
(eg using pretrained models or DEXTR).


**Fixes**

* added support for anti-aliased text in GOE editors and text overlays for improved readability.
* *adams-core:* 

  * updated simple-directory-chooser to 0.0.3 to fix problem with clicking on
    bookmarks not properly open directory tree.
  * The notification area in the *Flow editor* no longer splits the error output on ":"
    but on the top-level actor name, to avoid incorrect splits when colons are part of
    the actor name.
  * The storage panel of the Breakpoint control panel now updates correctly when the data changes.
  * The *Go to* menu item in the tree popup menu of the Flow editor now works as expected when
    there are more than two actor handlers present (going up in the tree).
  * In the Flow editor, a copied single actor (with potential subtree) can now be pasted in the GOE 
    again (the internal representation gets converted to a commandline on demand, which the GOE can
    parse).
  * The *SetTextRenderer* for turning Java Set-like data structures into text now starts the
    numbering at 1 rather than at 2.
  * Validating a flow in the *Flow editor* now captures more variables.
  * Fixed several NullPointerExceptions relating to property change notifications when using the
    FlatLAF look and feel.
  * The *Parameters* tab in the Flow editor no longer shows options that are of type Actor.
  * Added a renderer for *Set* objects, e.g., used when inspecting storage objects.

* *adams-meta:* The getActors(Class) method of the *AbstractStandaloneGroup* class now returns all
  actors of that class, not just the first one.
* *adams-rats-core:* The stopExecution method of the *Cron* input Rat is now synchronized to avoid 
  race conditions in stopping the scheduler.
* *adams-redis:* The *RedisConnection* standalone now uses the specified host/port rather than just the
  default ones.


**Changes**

* *adams-addons-all:* added *adams-docker* as dependency
* *adams-annotator:* added *adams-docker* as dependency
* *adams-compress:* upgraded zip4j to 2.11.3
* *adams-core:*

  * The *ImageHandler* in the Preview browser now allows the image reader to be selected by the user.
  * The *Preview browser* now accepts setups from other content handlers in its options dialog when
    pasting a setup. It also has menu items for adjusting the window to half (of the screen) width/height.
  * The object inspection tree in the breakpoint view of the Flow editor now uses lazy expansion to 
    speed up display of large (and deeply nested) objects.
  * The *GenericObjectEditor* now displays log messages in the user interface as well, e.g., when
    pasting of a setup via the "∨" button (top right corner) goes wrong.
  * upgraded debian-maven-plugin to 1.0.22
  * The *ProgressBar* sink now has the ability for displaying a button that stops flow.
  * *DirectoryValueDefinition* and *FileValueDefinition* now can output absolute paths via the
    *useAbsolutePath* option.
  * The *Flow editor* now has menu items in the window menu for half (of the screen) width/height
  * What options are being displayed in the GenericObjectEditor depends on the current user-mode
    (Program -> User mode) and what minimum user mode has been defined for an option. E.g.,
    the logging level is only displayed in EXPERT mode now. This allows *hiding* of options that
    are not relevant for most users.
  * The *DisplayPanelManager* sink now allows specifying the location of the divider between
    entry names and the displayed entry.
  * Upgraded to FlatLAF 3.0 and tweaked JTree parameters to improve appearance.
  * using FlatLAFLight as default look'n'feel now.
  * Submenus in the popup menu of the Flow editor actor tree no longer require a custom class,
    instead a different definition in the FlowEditor.props file can be used (property: Tree.PopupMenu).

* *adams-imaging:*

  * The Preview browser handlers *ObjectAnnotationsHandler*, *ObjectCentersFromReport*, 
    *ObjectLocationsFromReport* and *ObjectLocationsFromSpreadSheet* now allow the user to 
    specify the image reader to use; also use a table rather than a list for displaying the 
    located objects and now offer a search panel; the object panel can be detached into a 
    separate frame as well.
  * The *ObjectLocationsHandler* in the Preview browser now supports a panel with the object locations.
  * The *YoloAnnotationsReportReader* and *YoloAnnotationsReportWriter* now support annotations
    in polygon format as well (index plus normalized x/y polygon coordinates). 
  * The *Draw* transformer now accepts plain BufferedImage objects as well.
  * The *Image* plugin for the *Draw* transformer now allows specifying an alpha value for transparency
    as well.
  * The *OpexObjectLocationsReader/Writer* now support per object meta-data as well.
  * Added support for tools in the *ImageObjectAnnotator* transformer interface. The 
    *Annotator* tool lets you switch how you annotate objects (eg from bbox to polygon) while
    annotating. With *Edit* existing annotations can be modified (resizing bboxes, moving/adding vertices)
    and with *Move* annotations can be moved (dragged with mouse or moved via arrow keys).

* *adams-json:* The *JsonObjectToMap* conversion can turn JSON arrays into lists now as well (via option).
* *adams-matlab:* The *Mat5StructToMap* now handles structs with more elements than 1x1 correctly
  and allows the user to specify the index of a specific element to retrieve.
* *adams-ml-app:* added *adams-docker* as dependency
* *adams-moa:* excluding slf4j-log4j12 from moa dependency now, to avoid duplicate logger class.
* *adams-nlp:* excluding the outdated commons-lang3 dependency from com.kennycason:kumo-core and using
  version 3.7 instead explicitly.
* *adams-redis:* added support for authentication and experimental SSL parameters (useSSL, StartTLS, 
  SSLVerifyMode) to the *RedisConnection* standalone.
* *adams-rsync:* upgraded rsync4j to 3.2.7-1.
* *adams-spectral-3way-core:* excluding log4j-slf4j-impl transitive dependency from multiway-algorithms
  now to avoid duplicate logger class.
* *adams-spreadsheet:* The *Spreadsheet viewer* now has a *Window* menu, offering to open a new viewer 
  window or adjusting the current one to half width/height.
* *adams-weka* and *adams-weka-lts*: 

  * The operations *Merge*, *Randomize* and *RandomSubset* that are available in the table listing 
    the datasets now keep their last settings.
  * The *Investigator* now has a *Window* menu, offering to open a new Investigator window or adjusting
    the current one to half (of the screen) width/height.

* *adams-yaml:* upgraded snakeyaml to 1.33
* *adams-xml:* upgraded xstream to 1.4.20 to address CVE-2022-40151 and CVE-2022-41966.


**Additions**

* *adams-audio:* The *SpeechPlaybackHandler* allows playback of WAV/MP3 files and displays the content
  of the associated .txt file.
* *adams-core:* 

  * The *ObjectViewer* sink allows the user to inspect any object with ADAMS' built-in inspection capabilities.
  * The *Flow editor* now has the *Parse error* item in the *Run* menu which allows to the user to paste
    an error output (which contains actor names) from the console. This error then gets parsed and the user
    can navigate to the actors (if possible).
  * The *LastLineMatches* file use scheme simply checks whether the last line in a text file matches the
    specified regular expression (useful under Linux).
  * SelectDirectory/SelectFile/EnterValue actor can be "swapped" in the Flow editor with a EnterManyValues 
    instance now.

* *adams-docker:* basic support for executing docker commands. Linux/Mac only or WSL2, as it relies
  on the docker command-line client for execution.

* *adams-imaging:*

  * The *ObjectAnnotationsHandler* now has an *OverlapRemoval* cleaner, e.g., for only keeping
    predictions with the highest score.
  * The *ImageClassificationHandler* overlays label (and optional score) onto an image that was
    read with the specified report reader.
  * The *ImageClassificationSpreadSheetReportReader* loads spreadsheets with image classification
    predictions and stores the highest label and its score in the report.
  * The *SimpleOverlay* image segmentation container operation turns base image and layers into
    a combined image that can be used in reports or saved to disk; *CompareAnnotationWithPrediction*
    generates images from annotation vs prediction, highlighting the overlappoing, missed and 
    additional pixels.
  * The *ImageSegmentationViewer* allows the viewing of ImageSegmentationContainer tokens, 
    making it easy to toggle layers for better inspection.
  * The *AnyImageToByteArray* and *BufferedImageToByteArray* conversions turn an image into a
    byte array of a certain format (e.g., JPG or PNG).
  * The *ByteArrayToBufferedImage* generates an image container from the incoming byte array
    representing an image (e.g., JPG or PNG).
  * The *PolygonPointAnnotator* allows the user to annotate polygons by left-clicking on each
    vertex (ENTER accepts, ESCAPE discards).
  * The *PolygonFill* tool allows you to define a polygon in the *ImageSegmentationAnnotator*
    transformer that then gets filled with either foreground or background color. The polygon
    gets defined by left-clicking on the individual vertices.
  * Added meta-plotters for annotation outlines, labels and shapes that apply the sub-plotters 
    subsequently.
  * Added vertex outline plotters for object annotations (bbox and polygon).

* *adams-imaging-ext:* 

  * A new module with imaging tools that rely on external tools, like  deep learning frameworks 
    that run in docker containers. 
  * DEXTR (Deep Extreme Cut) can aid the human annotator in annotating shapes for image segmentation 
    (via transformer *ImageSegmentationAnnotator*). 
  * OPEX can obtain object detection predictions from an OPEX-emitting docker container 
    (via transformer *ImageObjectAnnotator*).

* *adams-json:* 

  * With *ImageClassificationJsonReportReader* it is possible to read JSON files that
    contain label/score pairs generated as predictions by image classification frameworks.
  * The *JsonArrayToList* conversion turns a JSON array into a Java list.
  * The *ListToJsonArray* conversion turns a Java list into a JSON array.

* *adams-matlab:*

  * The *DoubleMatrixToMat5Array* conversion turns a double matrix into a 2-dimensional Matlab array.
  * The *MapToMat5Struct* conversion turns a Java map (nested maps, spreadsheets, Matlab arrays) 
    into a Matlab struct object.
  * The *Mat5ArrayToString* conversion generates a human-readable string from a Matlab matrix.
  * The *StringToMat5Array* conversion parses a string like [1, 2; 3, 4] into a Matlab matrix.
  * The *MultiMatrixOperation* transformer applies a matrix operation to the matrices passing through
    and outputs the results.
  * The *Mat5CharToString* conversion turns a Char object into a string.

* *adams-spreadsheet:* The *AutoWidthTabularSpreadSheetReader/Writer* pair allows parsing/outputting 
  of tabular text files with dynamic column widths. For reading, the column width is being determined 
  based on the header row. For writing, the column width is adjusted to fit all content in the output.

* *adams-weka* and *adams-weka-lts*: 

  * added the *Remove test set* action to the Investigator, which uses the RemoteTestInstances filter 
    under the hood for removing instances of a test set from a source dataset (using a unique ID).
  * added the Soerensen-Dice metric for nominal classes (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/S%C3%B8rensen%E2%80%93Dice_coefficient).

