.. title: Updates 2022/11/11
.. slug: updates-2022-11-11
.. date: 2022-11-11 16:53:00 UTC+13:00
.. tags: 
.. status: draft
.. category: 
.. link: 
.. description: 
.. type: text
.. author: FracPete

This time round we have a bigger update coming: further modules retired, added experimental module
for initial OpenCV image processing support, the Matlab module got extended massively (now can create 
structs/matrices and populate them, not just read them), a number of dependencies were upgraded
and, works now properly under Java 17 and, last but not least, simplified switching of look'n'feel
from the main menu (and added support for modern FlatLaf look'n'feel).


**Fixes**

* *adams-core:* 

  * The documentation of the *DeleteFile* standalone now states that it only deletes files.
  * The storage tab in the control panel in the Flow editor when reading a breakpoint now
    keeps the last select item in the table. Therefore it updates that item whenever the
    breakpoint is reached again.

* *adams-matlab:* 

  * The transformer *Mat5FileInfo* now sorts the output when enabled.
  * The transformer *Mat5StructInfo* now queries the input token for the correct input type
    and sorting works now as expected.

* *adams-spreadsheet:* The *SpreadSheetDisplay* sink can be accessed via CallableActorScreenshot
  when inside a DisplayPanelManager now as well.


**Changes**

* *adams-core:*

  * Removed the following actors (which had been marked as deprecated for a long time):

    * ConditionalStandalone
    * ConditionalSource
    * ConditionalTransformer
    * ConditionalSink

  * The package *adams.flow.condition.test*, which was only used by these actors, has been removed as well.
  * The *SelectArraySubset* transformer now has an *initialSelection* range parameter with which you
    can select which items get selected to start with and an *initialSearch* parameter (search must be allowed)
    to immediately show only a subset.
  * Now uses the simple-directtory-chooser library (https://github.com/waikato-datamining/simple-directory-chooser) 
    for providing a way of selecting directories in the user interface.
  * The GenericObjectEditor used by the Flow editor and in other locations are now remembering size and location.
  * Simplified switching of Look'n'Feel (main menu: Program > Look'n'feel) and added support for 
    FlatLaf (https://www.formdev.com/flatlaf/).
  * The *HasSize* boolean condition now allows the specification of an upper bound as well.
  * The control panel, when reaching a breakpoint, now allows the user to specify a rendering limit
    (token and storage; underlying renderer must support that), to adjust how much data is being displayed.
  * The *SelectDirectory* source actor now allows the selection of multiple directories.
  * The *MapToString* conversion now outputs array values in a readable format.

* *adams-db*: upgraded hsqldb to 2.7.1 to address CVE-2022-41853
* *adams-heatmap:* removed deprecated filter *HeatmapCropToCentroid* (replaced by HeatmapCrop/CropToCentroid)
* *adams-json:* upgraded gson to 2.8.9 to address CVE-2022-25647 
* *adams-matlab:* 

  * upgraded mfl-core to 0.5.11
  * renamed *MatlabStructInfo* to *Mat5StructInfo* for consistency

* *adams-meka:* upgraded meka to 1.9.7 (to work with Java 17)
* *adams-moa:* upgraded MOA to 2022.10.17 (ADAMS-internal release of fork; minus deep learning classifiers/libraries)
* *adams-pdf:* 

  * The page ranges of the *PDFExtract* and *PDFRenderPages* transformers are now unordered (i.e., indices will not get sorted).
  * Replaced the outdated Intarsys libraries with modern IcePDF (https://github.com/pcorless/icepdf).

* *adams-rest:* upgraded jackson-databind to 2.14.0-rc1 to address CVE-2022-42003
* *adams-spectral-3way-core:* upgraded multiway-algorithms to 0.0.13 and lombok to 1.18.24 to work with Java 17
* *adams-spreadsheet:* 

  * The *SpreadSheetRowBuffer* transformer now allows the user to specify a monitor variable
    for resetting the buffer (row -> sheet).
  * The *HasRows* boolean condition now allows the specification of an upper bound as well.

* *adams-weka* and *adams-weka-lts*: 

  * The *WekaInstanceBuffer* transformer now allows the user to specify a monitor variable for resetting 
    the buffer (instance -> instances).
  * *WekaPredictionsToSpreadSheet* and *WekaPredictionsToInstances* now have *useOriginalIndices* on by 
    default to avoid accidental misalignment when adding attributes from the test data.


**Additions**

* *adams-core:* 

  * The *EnterManyValues* source can now query for arrays using the *ArrayValueDefinition* plugin.
  * The *DeleteDir* standalone can delete sub-directories matching a regular expression or itself.
  * The *HasLength* boolean condition can ensure a minimum/maximum length of an array.
  * The *CollectionSize* transformer outputs the size (ie number of stored elements) of any collection.
  * The *IsArm64* boolean condition checks whether the system architecture is Arm 64-bit.
  * The *DistinctValueCellRenderingCustomizer* renderer uses different a background color for
    each distinct value in the spreadsheet.
  * The *ColorProviderBasedColorGradientGenerator* can be used for generating colors using a 
    color provider (eg useful when generating images from matrices with unique values).

* *adams-imaging:* added the *DoubleMatrixToBufferedImage* conversion, which turns a heatmap into an image.
* *adams-matlab:*

  * added the *Mat5ArrayInfo* transformer to obtain information on the incoming array (eg dimensions).
  * added the *Mat5ArraySubset* transformer for obtaining arbitrary subsets (n-dimensional arrays) of arrays.
  * added the *MatlabArrayToDoubleMatrix* conversion.
  * added the *IsMatlabArray* boolean flow condition.
  * added the *IsMatlabMatrix* boolean flow condition.
  * added the *NewMat5Matrix* source actor for creating an empty matrix.
  * added the *Mat5GetMatrixElement* transformer for retrieving a single element from a n-dimensional matrix.
  * added the *Mat5SetMatrixElement* transformer for setting a single element in a n-dimensional matrix.
  * added the *NewMat5Struct* source actor for creating an empty struct.
  * added the *Mat5GetStructField* transformer for retrieving an array by name from a struct.
  * added the *Mat5SetStructField* transformer for setting an array by name in a struct.

* *adams-opencv:* new module for image processing using JavaCV's wrapper around OpenCV.


**Retired modules**

The following modules have been retired and moved to `https://github.com/waikato-datamining/adams-discontinued <https://github.com/waikato-datamining/adams-discontinued>`__:

* *adams-dex-app:* due to retiring RabbitMQ modules
* *adams-jython:* Jython hasn't progressed beyond Python 2.7 for many years
* *adams-rabbitmq:* focus shifted, no longer required
* *adams-rabbitmq-rats:* due to retiring adams-rabbitmq

