.. title: Updates 2018/10/19
.. slug: updates-2018-10-19
.. date: 2018-10-19 16:07:01 UTC+13:00
.. tags: 
.. category: 
.. link: 
.. description: 
.. type: text
.. author: FracPete

Quite a bit of work underneath the hood has happened, UI improvements relating
to the Flow editor, improved previewing for spectral data types and lots of
little changes and fixes.

**Fixes**

* The *ListStructureModifyingActors* actor processor now skips disabled actors
  (used when debugging).
* GOE editors that handle actor references like callable actors now skip any
  actors that are disabled.
* Rearranged the Flow editor tree popup menu a bit to streamline usage: 
  combined external actor operations; moved less commonly used operations down.
* Added support for Flow editor tree popup menu extensions, ie menu items that 
  get inserted after/before an existing menu item (*Tree.PopupMenuExtensions* in
  *FlowEditor.props* settings file).
* The *FileInfoHandler* of the *Preview Browser* switched to using java.nio.file.Files.XXX 
  methods (due to bug in java.io.File.XXX methods, see https://bugs.java.com/bugdatabase/view_bug.do?bug_id=6203387);
  added owner, posix permissions, regular file, symbolic link to the output.
* Recent refactoring of the generic plot panel and its axes, resulted in 
  invalid formattters getting assigned. This resulted in the *Memory monitor* 
  x axis showing the *HH:mm* plus the Java Epoch.
* BOMs (byte order marks; used by UTF variants) are now handled properly by the 
  CsvSpreadSheetReader, the generic loading of text files and the various
  TextFileReader schemes.
* *adams-imaging:* 

  * Annotating objects is no longer generating negative heights
    or widths when not starting selection rectangle in top-right corner.
  * The *Objects* sub-image algorithm now ensures that the sub-image dimensions
    do not exceed the original image.

* *adams-ml:* The *ConfusionMatrix* transformer now handles unclassified 
  predictions (aka missing values).
* *adams-spreadsheet:* 

  * *SpreadSheetDisplay* now adheres to the useOptimalColumnWidth flag.
  * *Spreadsheet file viewer*: now hides rows with missing values when
    applying filters; *Copy column* now copies only the visible cell 
    values instead of all.
  * The *SpreadSheetMerge* transformer now removes duplicate unique columns
    correctly (failed to remove correct ones if no prefix/ID was used), 
    when using the *keepOnlySingleUniqueID* flag.

* *adams-weka* and *adams-weka-lts*: 

  * *WekaPredictionsToSpreadSheet* (also used in generating the confusion 
    matrix view in the Investigator) now ensures that labels are treated as 
    strings now, to avoid numeric conversions for labels like '00' or '07'.
  * *WekaPredictionsToSpreadSheet*, *WekaPredictionsToInstances* and the 
    *Investigator* now correctly align the original instances with the 
    predictions of cross-validation when using a grouped split generator.

* *adams-spectral-2dim-core:* The *OpusSpectrumReaderExt* now applies the
  scaling factor for Y defined in the file when reading the amplitudes.


**Changes**

* Switched from Swing widgets to ADAMS ones: JButton, JCheckBox, JComboBox,
  JTextArea, JTextField, JTextPane. This makes it easier to introduce 
  additional functionality in the top-level class.
* The *Command* and *Exec* sources and the *Exec* sink now support setting of 
  custom environment variables.
* Added option for conversion to be applied to values, to have better control 
  over types for hashset-handlers: *HashSetInit* (standalone/transformer),
  *HashSetAdd* (transformer), *HashSet* (boolean condition).
* The parsers for *BooleanExpression*, *MathematicalExpression* and *StringExpression*
  now allow expression variables (not to be confused with flow variables) to
  be strings consisting of alphanumeric chars and "_" (but must start with uppercase 
  letter to distinguish them from built-in functions), as well as enclosing via single
  quotes instead of just "[]".
* Report tables are now using a case-insensitive sort on the field names.
* The *NewReport* source now uses BaseClassname instead of String for the report 
  classname.
* *BaseClassname* now has its own GOE editor, which allows you to search for 
  classes.
* The *GenericArrayEditor* now allows the sorting (asc/desc) of the elements.
* The *SetContainerValue* control actor now allows storage of non-standard, 
  additional meta-data via the *force* flag.
* *adams-rats:* The *Exec* input and output now support setting of custom 
  environment variables.
* *adams-spreadsheet*: The *LookUpUpdate* parser now allows enclosing of expression
  variables in "[]" as well, aligning it with the other parsers.
* *adams-spectral-3way-core:* upgraded multiway-algorithms dependency to 0.0.7.
* *adams-spectral-2dim-core:* 

  * Added *-lenient* flag to the *InstanceGenerator* 
    transformer to only log errors instead of returning them (and possibly stopping 
    the flow).
  * The spectrum preview in the *Preview browser* and the object renderer when 
    debugging a flow now display spectrum and sample data via a tabbed pane, rather
    than just the spectrum.

* *adams-compress:* upgraded unrar dependency to 3.0.0
* *adams-net:* 

  * removed obsolete org.apache.httpcomponents/httpclient dependency
  * upgraded tika-core dependency to 1.19.1


**Additions**

* Added the *PullUpActor* tree editor popup menu and keyboard action, which moves all
  sub-actors of a mutable actor handler (like Tee or Trigger) up one level and removes 
  the enclosing actor handler.
* Added little test dialog for date formatting/parsing in *Developer* user mode in
  the *Maintenance* menu.
* *adams-ml:* added basic filter framework for spreadsheet-based datasets,
  SavitzkyGolay, PLS, MultiStream, MultiBatch.
* *adams-weka* and *adams-weka-lts*: added *OuterProductAnalysis* filter 
  (Fabricio S.Terra, Raphael A.Viscarra Rossel, Jose A.M.Dematte (2019). 
  Spectral fusion by Outer Product Analysis (OPA) to improve predictions 
  of soil organic C. Geoderma. 335:35-46. URL https://doi.org/10.1016/j.geoderma.2018.08.005.).
* *adams-spectral-2dim-core:* 

  * Added new AbstractMultiSpectrumFilter schemes: *Add* and *Subtract*.
  * Source for listing sample IDs of sample data with no associated spectra: 
    *OrphanedSampleDataIdSupplier*
  * Added handlers in the *Preview browser* for spectrum formats: ASCIIXY, CML, DPT, JCampDX,
    JCampDX2, Json, MPS, Opus, OpusExt, Relab, SPA, SPC, SpecLib.

