.. title: Updates 2020/12/17
.. slug: updates-2020-12-17
.. date: 2020-12-17 14:01:00 UTC+13:00
.. tags: 
.. status: 
.. category: 
.. link: 
.. description: 
.. type: text
.. author: FracPete

Bunch of tweaks/fixes and, thanks to working on an image segmentation project, also
quite a few additions related to image processing. The Preprocess panel in the
Weka Investigator got more user friendly, allowing you to convert some attribute
types as well as reordering attributes without using a filter (well, filters are 
used behind the scene to achieve it).

**Fixes**

* The *debug view* of a flow with external actors is no longer displayed in a separate
  page, but by using a splitview of the same panel (debug=top, actualflow=bottom). This
  fixes the display problem when debugging flows with external actors.
* The history available through the right-click menu of chooser panels for files and dirs
  now disambigues the captions of its menu items by prefixing them with parent dir(s).
* In the *Debug* panel of the Flow editor, once the inspection dialog has been closed, 
  it no longer pops up when selecting another storage item.
* The *DirectoryValueDefinition* and *FileValueDefinition* used by *EnterManyValues*
  now apply the file chooser title option.
* *adams-meta:* The *ProcessActor* transformer now forwards the original actor in case
  the *ModifyingProcessor* did not actually modify the actor.
* *adams-weka:* The PCA tab no longer changes the class attribute of the chosen dataset,
  but works with a copy of the dataset instead.


**Changes**

* Added the rounding type *RINT* and added support for rounding at a specified decimal,
  available in Round and MathExpression conversions/actors.
* *adams-json:* 

  * The transformers *GetJsonKeys*, *GetJsonValue* and *SetJsonValue* now accept 
    strings (representing JSON) as input as well.
  * The *JsonToReport* conversion now allows specifying a prefix for the field names.
  * Upgraded gson dependency to 2.8.6

* *adams-net*: Upgraded requests4j to 0.2.1
* *adams-spreadsheet:* The *SpreadSheetSelectSubset* transformer can now preview the select
  row(s) with a chosen preview generator.
* *adams-scripts:* improved checks on Windows for Java executable and error messages are 
  now more helpful (command-prompt window doesn't just disappear anymore).
* *adams-meka*: upgraded to 1.9.3
* *adams-ml:* The *ActualVsPredictedPlot* now allows the user to specify a custom paintlet
  (e.g., the new MetaDataValuePaintlet).
* *adams-weka:* 

  * Classifier errors in the Weka Investigator now support using custom paintlets.
  * Upgraded Weka to 3.9.4-fork-0.0.3 to take advantage of the ConverterFileChooser upgrades

* *adams-weka-lts:*

  * Upgraded Weka to 3.9.0-fork-0.0.11 to take advantage of the ConverterFileChooser upgrades

* *adams-imaging:* The *PNGImageReader* now uses a color provider to replace the colors
  of PNGs with a palette (the reader does not have access to the color palette itself, unfortunately).


**Additions**

* The *ArrayToReport* conversion turns any array into a Report object, using the array
  index, suffix and prefix to generate field names.
* The *MetaDataValuePaintlet* paints a meta-data value (with circle as fallback if value 
  not present) at the position of the data point (centered).
* Added colors providers for color blindness (8, 12, 15 and 24 colors), which can be used
  in plots. They providers are based on palettes from http://mkweb.bcgsc.ca/colorblind/palettes.mhtml
* The *RelativeDir* transformer turns paths into relative ones by removing the specified path prefix.
* The *IterateFilesWithProgressBar* flow template generates a sub-flow that iterates files from a
  directory that matched the provided regular expression. Uses a ProgressBar for providing feedback
  to the user.
* *adams-imaging:* 

  * Added *PNGImageReader* for reading PNG images using the pngj library.
  * Added basic support for image segmentation annotations: *ImageSegmentationFileReader*,
    *ImageSegmentationAnnotator* and *ImageSegmentationFileWriter*. The flow
    *adams-imaging-image_segmentation_annotation.flow* uses these actors.
  * The *GrayOrIndexedImageWriter* image writer turns gray or ones with an indexed palette
    into color ones using the specified color provider. Useful for making image segmentation
    images *human-viewable*.
  * The *ReplaceColor* BufferedImage transformer plugin allows swapping out colors in an image.
  * The *ReplacePredominantColor* BufferedImage transformer allows replacing the dominant color
    (e.g., the background) with another color.
  * The *ImageObjectAnnotator* transformer supersedes the *ImageAnnotator* actor, with a more
    flexible architecture underneath the and undo/redo support.
  * The preview plugin *ColorDistributionHandler* displays a table with pixel counts per color 
    for an image.
  * With the *ImageSegmentationContainerOperation* transformer operations on segmentation
    containers like comparing predictions with annotations are now possible.
  * The *ObjectAnnotationsToImageSegmentationLayers* conversion generates image segmentation
    layers from object shape annotations, using the labels of the object as layer name.

* *adams-spectral-2dmin-core:* Added the filters for updating a spectrum's report based on 
  on other report values: ConditionalReportField, ReportFieldFromStringValue, 
  ReportFieldFromStringValueWithLookup.
* *adams-spreadsheet:* 

  * Added support for JFreeChart bar charts.
  * Added support for reordering rows in a spreadsheet using *SpreadSheetReorderRows*.

* *adams-weka* and *adams-weka-lts*: 

  * The *FromPredictions* evaluation plugin for classification (in the Weka
    Investigator) allows you to load a spreadsheet and generate the usual outputs
    available from a regular evaluation run.
  * The *Scatter plot* tab in the Weka Investigator allows you to plot
    two attributes from a dataset against each other using various paintlets.
  * The *Reorder attributes*, *Checked to date*, *Checked to nominal* and *Checked to string* 
    actions got added to the drop down list of actions of *Attributes* box in the Preprocess tab.
  * The *AnyToString* filter turns any attribute into a string one.
  * The *StringToDate* filter turns string attributes into date ones, using the specified 
    parse format (eg "yyyy-MM-dd HH:mm:ss").

* *adams-visualstats:* The *ScatterPaintletMetaDataValue* paintlet for scatter plots
  (like PCA/PLS in Weka Investigator) allows the plotting of a meta-data value
  as string rather than using Xs or circles (uses circle as fallback if value not present).

Have a great Xmas break!

