.. title: Updates 2016/10/14
.. slug: updates-2016-10-14
.. date: 2016-10-14 16:46:07 UTC+13:00
.. tags: 
.. category: 
.. link: 
.. description: 
.. type: text
.. author: FracPete

The *Weka Investigator* is still under heavy development, but now it is more
about stability, usability and additional functionality. The general framework
is pretty much there.

**Fixes**

* Fixed memory leak that occurs within *Rat* actors in conjunction with 
  directed control actors like *Switch*, the *setUp()* method call didn't 
  remove its current Directory instance from the PauseStateManager as listener.
* The plain text handler of the *Preview browser* now displays a 
  *Creation of preview failed* if it cannot load the file as text. Also fixed
  the occasional occurring use of the wrong content handler (race condition).
* Added boolean flag to catch circular calculation in spreadsheet formulas, 
  avoiding costly StackOverflows per cell (can take a very long time in 
  large spreadsheets).
* The *XSLT* transformer no longer fails if the stylesheet file property
  is empty (and wrongly trying to load a non-existing file).
* *adams-weka:*

  * The *Export* action in the *Weka Investigator* now allows overwriting
    existing files; also uses any existing file as the suggested export
    file name.
  * The *Weka Investigator* dropdown lists for the class attribute in the 
    data table are no longer cached to avoid inconsistencies in case the 
    user modifies the attributes of a dataset.
  * Stopping cross-validation in the *Weka Investigator* now properly
    waits for the sub-threads to finish.


**Changes**

* The *Simple plot* for spreadsheet/instances tables now asks the user
  for number of data points to plot if that should exceed 1000.
* The *File commander* now pops up remote directory setup if it should require
  initialization (when changing the chooser).
* Panels for choosing files and directories now retain a history of selected
  elements.
* The *EnterManyValues* source can output the key-value pairs as a 
  ``java.util.Map`` object now as well.
* *SimplePlot* and *SequencePlotter* now allow the export of the first visible
  plot to CSV.
* *adams-compress:* upgraded lzma-java artifact to 1.3.
* *adams-visualstats:* added support for mouse click actions to the 
  *ScatterDisplay* sink.
* *adams-weka:* 

  * The *WekaPrincipalComponents* transformer now outputs not only
    loadings, but also the transformed data. Automatically filters out attributes
    that PCA does not support (uses PartitionedMultiFilter internally to add
    them again to the transformed data).
  * *WekaPredictionsToInstances* and *WekaPredictionsToSpreadSheet* allow the user
    to output the absolute error (default) or not.
  * The *Weka Investigator* now allows you to copy, save and load workspaces
    (any graphical output has to be regenerated though; simply right-click on
    history entry and select *Regenerate output*). Undo can be turned off now as well.
    Testing classifier models now outputs from progress information as feedback for
    the user.


**Additions**

* Transformer for changing prefixes of report fields to a new one: *ChangeReportFieldPrefixes*.
* *adams-weka:* 

  * added *AttributeStatistics* column processor for tables
    displaying Instances objects, like the Data tab in the Weka Investigator.
  * The *Weka Investigator* now has *principal components* and *partial least squares* 
    visualization tabs, which display loadings and scores. The Investigator also
    offers shortcuts now for the tabs, to quickly open new tabs. An action
    for *randomizing* a dataset has been added to the *Data* tab.

* *adams-imaging:*

  * Added *MergeObjectLocations* transformer to merge the located objects in two 
    reports.
  * The *CompareObjectTypes* transformer compares the type of located objects in 
    two reports and outputs a comparison spreadsheet.

* *adams-spreadsheet:* 

  * The *LookUpInit* standalone initializes an empty lookup table in storage.
  * With the *ReportToSpreadSheet* conversion, you can turn a Report object into
    a spreadsheet.
  * With the *LookUpUpdate* transformer, you can update a spreadsheet that acts
    as a lookup table using custom rules (e.g., if-then-else).

* *adams-spectral-core:* added support for PCA/PLS analysis using spectra
  to the *Spectrum Explorer*.

