.. title: Updates 2016/09/11
.. slug: updates-2016-09-11
.. date: 2016-09-11 12:03:07 UTC+13:00
.. tags: updates
.. category: 
.. link: 
.. description: 
.. type: text
.. author: FracPete

The replacement of the default Weka interfaces (Explorer, Experimenter) with more
user-friendly and efficient interfaces is more or less finished, with the introduction
of the *Multi-Experimenter* (see below).


**Fixes**

* *adams.core.discovery.DefaultPropertyDiscovery* now uses the regular expressions 
  on the property paths.
* *adams-twitter:* The extraction of hashtags from tweet archives incorrectly cut off
  the last character from tags (*Retwee* instead of *Retweet*).
* *adams-rats:* Fixed the incomplete full names of *Rat* actors.


**Changes**

* The *Find next* menu item has been removed from the Flow Editor's menu, as the
  updated *Find* menu item now lists all occurrences in a dialog.
* The *File commander* now offers action plugins, with the *adams-compress* module
  offering GZIP and ZIP actions.
* The *RegExp Test* maintenance tool now offers *Replace* and *Match* tabs.
* The *FileSystemSearch* source is now stoppable.
* *adams-net:* upgraded jsch to 0.1.54.
* *adams-weka:* The *Weka Investigator* received a few changes:

  * Supports now leave-one-out cross-validation (LOO-CV) and multi-threaded evaluation 
    in the *Classify* tab. 
  * Sports the *4-in-1 plot* available from the adams-visualstats module as output for the 
    classify tab.
  * In the data tab, you can now display histograms and simple plots for rows/columns.
  * Undo is now available as well - per dataset level.

* Modules have been rearranged: adams-base-all, adams-addons-all annd adams-incubator-all
  have been moved to adams-applications. The *Snapshot (Apps)* page on the ADAMS website 
  got removed, as the application snapshots have been folded into the regular snapshots.


**Additions**

* Added object reader/write using a nested command-line format, which is easier to edit
  manually than the default command-line format.
* Added *FindText* flow processor that allows searching for text in the actors' options
  (String and BaseObject-derived ones).
* *adams-net:* additional searchlets for the *FileSystemSearch* source that allow 
  searching on remote servers using SFTP channels. A *SSHConnection* standalone actor
  must be present in the flow for this to work.
* *adams-rats:* added *Exec* rat input and output schemes which execute an external
  program.
* *adams-weka:* 

  * Added *Attribute selection* panel to the *Weka Investigator*.
  * Added *Weka Multi-Experimenter* tool, which offers a user interface that utilizes
    the Weka experiment framework mainly for analyzing experimental results. Weka's
    simple setup is available, as well as one for ADAMS-based experiments. The advantage
    of the latter is support for multi-threading and (in theory) also distributed 
    computation.

* There is a new snapshot available: *adams-ml-app*. This collection of modules
  combines all machine learning modules.

