.. title: new
.. slug: new
.. date: 2016-09-23 17:20:07 UTC+13:00
.. tags: updates
.. category: 
.. link: 
.. description: 
.. type: text
.. author: FracPete

The *Weka Investigator* is maturing quite nicely. Going back to the 
*Weka Explorer* feels quite weird now... Handling of multi-core processing
has slightly changed, as explained below.

**Fixes**

* Fixed layout issues with the *Class help* menu item from the *Help* menu.
* fixed *PlaceholderFile.expand* method, which accidentally used *getPath()* 
  instead of provided path, resulting in *renameTo* method not working as 
  expected (old and new name were the same).
* *adams-ml:* The *ActualVsPredictedPlot* sink no longer drops points with 
  the same X, now compares X and Y to make that decision.
* *adams-spreadsheet:* The COUNT aggregation of the *SpreadSheetAggregate* 
  transformer now works if no numeric columns have been specified. This allows
  the *SpreadSheetQuery* transformer to process a query like 
  `SELECT COUNT GROUP BY class`.


**Changes**

* Upgraded *EnterManyValues* source to work in headless environment as well.
* History of GenericObjectEditor panels is now persistent; stored as simple 
  list of commandlines in project's home directory. Affects ADAMS and Weka
  GOE panels.
* *File Commander* allows you now to connect to remote servers using
  FTP, SFTP and SMB (if *adams-net* module present). Viewing of remote files
  is supported as well (remote file gets downloaded as temporary file first).
* The *Preview browser* now carries over search settings from one file to
  the next, as long as the content handler stays the same.
* The *number of threads* option for multi-threading has changed its meaning
  slightly. Previously, anything below **1** was considered to use all available
  cores. The new interpretation is that only **0** is considered to use all
  available cores. Negative numbers represent the number of cores to reserve
  for other processes, e.g., **-1** means all cores minus one are used, 
  reserving one core for other operations.
* The *WhileLoop* control actor now allows standalone actors to be added.
* *adams-rats:* Added *guards* class hierarchy to the *EnQueue* rats output scheme,
  e.g., *MaxQueueSize* which ensures that the queue doesn't become too full.
* *adams-visualstats:* The following sinks can be enclosed in a *DisplayPanelManager*
  now: BoxPlot, FourInOneDisplay, Histogram, MatrixPlot, ProbabilityPlotDisplay,
  ScatterDisplay.
* *adams-weka:* The *Weka Investigator* now allows you to store additional
  columns from the data alongside the evaluation. The *Classifier Errors*
  plot (not the Weka legacy one) displays that then when clicking on data
  points in the plot. The *Predictions* output of the Classify tab shows these
  additional attributes, too.


**Additions**

* Added stopping criterion *MaxIterationsWithoutImprovement* for the genetic optimization
  algorithms.
* Searchlets for the *FileSystemSearch* source actor that operate on the local file 
  system have been prefixed with *Local*, to distinguish them better from others offered
  through other modules.
* *adams-net:* 

  * added support for listing files via SMB (i.e., Windows shares) and FTP to the 
    *FileSystemSearch* source actor. 
  * *FTPLister* source has been deprecated and will get removed in the future.
    Use *FileSystemSearch* in conjunction with FTP searchlets instead.
  * *FTPGet*, *ScpFrom* and *SFTPGet* now have an empty directory as default they
    no longer prefix the remote directory if empty.
  * The *SMBGet* and *SMBSend* transformers in conjunction with the *SMBConnection* 
    standalone allow you to retrieve/send files from a Windows host.

* *adams-spectral-core:* The *Update Sample data* maintenance interface allows you to 
  update a single field for all the checked spectra. Useful when setting a particular flag.
* *adams-spreadsheet:* Row and column statistics can be calculated now for instances
  of the *SpreadSheetTable* class, e.g., used by the *Spreadsheet file viewer*.
* *adams-weka:* 

  * Added an *Instance Explorer*-like tab and a *Box plot* tab to the 
    *Weka Investigator*.
  * Row and column statistics can be calculated now for *InstancesTable* instances, as
    used by the *Weka Investigator*.

Have a good weekend!

