.. title: Updates 2017/01/27
.. slug: updates-2017-01-27
.. date: 2017-01-27 15:47:07 UTC+13:00
.. tags: 
.. category: 
.. link: 
.. description: 
.. type: text
.. author: FracPete

The new year started mainly with a lot of work and, whenever I had time, with the
upgrade of some libraries, like Weka and deeplearning4j.

**Fixes**

* The *Utils.doubleToStringFixed* method now handles ``NaN`` and ``Inf`` values correctly.
* Fixed flushing/closing of compressed serialized models (*SerializationHelper* class).
* The *CheckVariableUsage* flow processor now excludes system-supplied variables like
  ``flow_dir`` and ``flow_id`` from the check.
* *adams-dl4j:* 

  * Added icon for *DL4JModelReader* transformer.
  * *RecordReaderDataSetIteratorConfigurator* now allows using 0 as minimum for the 
    0-based indices.

* *adams-weka:* The *WekaFileReader* transformer now handles filenames without extension
  as long as there is a custom loader defined.


**Changes**

* The *Display* and *HistoryPanel* sinks now have options for line-wrap and wrap-style-word.
* The *GridView* standalone and the *DisplayPanelGrid* sink now allow the user to 
  change the grid layout at runtime.
* *adams-ml-app:* 

  * added example flows/scripts for configuring deeplearning4j networks
    using Groovy and Jython.
  * added *adams-imaging* dependency to have basic image processing capability

* *adams-spreadsheet*: batch import of spreadsheets now output a more detailed error
  message in case of ``BatchUpdateException`` exceptions.
* *adams-weka:* Added a popup menu to the dataset table of the Investigator's 
  Preprocess panel and added the *Clear* action to the menu for removing all datasets 
  at once.
* Dependency changes

  * Weka 3.9.0 (with patched FilteredClassifier)
  * Apache CXF 3.1.9
  * LIRE 1.0b2
  * deeplearning4j 0.7.2
  * CUDA 8.0 libraries for deeplearning4j
  * ImageJ 1.51h
  * BoofCV 0.26

* *adams-dl4j:*

  * *DL4JDatasetIterator* source now has option to output full dataset instead of batches.

* *adams-spectral-2dim:*

  * Added regexp option to *CALSpectrumLoader* Weka file loader to allow loading of only 
    specific reference value(s).


**Additions**

* Added *ConditionalSequence* control actor, the conditional version of the default
  *Sequence* actor.
* *adams-imaging:* With the updated version of LIRE, additional feature generators
  are now available:

  * JointHistogram
  * LocalBinaryPatternsAndOpponent
  * RankAndOpponent
  * SimpleCentrist
  * SpatialPyramidAutoColorCorrelogram
  * SpatialPyramidCEDD
  * SpatialPyramidCentrist
  * SpatialPyramidCentrist
  * SpatialPyramidFCTH
  * SpatialPyramidJCD
  * SpatialPyramidLocalBinaryPatterns

* *adams-dl4j:*

  * Added *DL4JModelParamsToSpreadSheet* conversion for extracting the parameters.
  * Added *DL4JModelParamsToSpreadString* conversion for extracting the parameters
    as simple string.
  * Added *ImageScaler* dataset preprocessor.
  * Added *DL4JCrossValidationSplit* transformer to generate sequence of train/test 
    set containers.
  * The *DL4JCrossValidationEvaluator* transformer performs cross-validation on 
    a referenced model using the incoming dataset.
  * The *SpreadSheetRecordReaderConfigurator* allows to read any spreadsheet that
    ADAMS can read. However, textual cells get converted to NULLs and date/time 
    ones to their Java epoch equivalent.
  * The *DL4JDatasetAppend* transformer combines multiple datasets into a single 
    dataset, one after the other

* *adams-rats*:

  * Added the *Storage* and *Variable* rat inputs, for getting access to the specified
    storage item/variable.

* *adams-spreadsheet:*

  * Added *SpreadSheetToNumeric* conversion for turning non-numeric cells in a spreadsheet
    into numeric ones.
  * Added *Unique values* column action to the SpreadSheetTable column popup menu to 
    display the unique values of the selected column.

* *adams-spectral-2dim*:

  * Condition for checking whether spectrum already in database: *HasSpectrum*.
  * Spectra are now rendered in the Breakpoint and can be exported as well.

