.. title: Updates 2021/01/07
.. slug: updates-2021-01-07
.. date: 2021-01-07 09:35:00 UTC+13:00
.. tags: 
.. status:
.. category: 
.. link: 
.. description: 
.. type: text
.. author: FracPete

The new Weka release prompted an update and some other changes that occurred during the
crazy busy period before Xmas.

**Fixes**

* *adams-spreadsheet:* fixed a memory leak when generating and displaying lots of spreadsheets
  with the *SpreadSheetDisplay* sink.
* *adams-weka* and *adams-weka-lts*: the attribute summary panel now displays min/max/mean/stdev
  for date attributes using the attribute's date format rather than as number of milli-seconds.


**Changes**

* The *ReportFileReader* transformer can output reports as an array now.
* Any variables in the extension option of the *ReplaceFileExtension* conversion get
  automatically expanded now.
* *adams-spectral-2dim-core:* The *SampleDataFileReader* can output the sample data
  objects now as an array as well.
* *adams-weka:* upgraded Weka to 3.9.5-fork-0.0.2
* *adams-weka-lts:* upgraded Weka to 3.9.0-fork-0.0.12
* *adams-meka:* upgraded to Meka 1.9.4


**Additions**

* The *Preview browser* now has additional actions for local files: open, delete, print.
* The *CombineArrays* and *CombineCollections* sources make it easy to combine multiple
  arrays/collections in storage to be combined into a single one.
* The *FileNameCompare* comparator, which can be used with the *Sort* transformer,
  compares file-like objects, using only the name-part, ignored the path altogether.
  This allows interleaving files from multiple directories using their name alone.

