.. title: Updates 2018/12/07
.. slug: updates-2018-12-07
.. date: 2018-12-07 17:04:00 UTC+13:00
.. tags: 
.. category: 
.. link: 
.. description: 
.. type: text
.. author: FracPete

A fair amount of work was going on in the Weka-related modules, with
a new *Compare* tab getting introduced to the *Weka Investigator* and 
a number of new filters. The content handlers in the *Preview browser*
can be customized now, provided they have customizable options.

**Fixes**

* When swapping *SetVariable* transformer with standalone (and vice versa), 
  the transfer for variable of variableValue now works. Also added transfer for 
  expandValue, valueType properties.
* String content on the clipboard is now only parsed in the Flow editor when 
  performing an actual paste. This is to avoid lengthy wait times when switching 
  between flows or generating popup menu when the clipboard content is large.
* Pasting from clipboard in file or directory chooser panels now updates the history as well.
* *adams-rats:* meta ratinput/output schemes now call the base initReception/Transmission 
  methods; the *Cron* input scheme now installs the cronjob in the initReception method 
  (to avoid race conditions), *DeQueue* configures queue in initReception, *Socket* 
  sets up server socket in initReception, *Subscribe* configures subscription in initReception.
* Updating a value using a field with a different data type as currently stored in a report 
  didn't update the field itself, the old key was kept instead. Problematic when
  updating reference data for spectra, attempting to fix the data type of values.
* *adams-spreadsheet:* fixed the quick info of the *SpreadSheetAddRowID* conversion.
* *adams-spectral-2dim-core:* the *Preview browser* now handles simple spectrum files (.spec)
  again.
* *adams-weka* and *adams-weka-lts*: 

  * fixed setting of *numZeroes* in *RemoveWithZeroes* filter.
  * the *WekaFileChooser* now lists all loaders/savers again

* *adams-net:* fixed generation of output file name in *SFTPGet* transformer.
* *adams-rats:* bulk actions now only get applied to checked ones, not all; 
  checking/unchecking RatControl panel now uncheckings the RatsControl panel.


**Changes**

* *NumericStringCompare*, as used by the *Sort* transformer, now providers better error 
  messages when regexp replacement fails.
* Content handlers in the *Preview browser* can be customized now (only some offer cutomizable options)
* The *Flow editor* now has an *Actors* help menu item, which brings up class help just
  for actors. Additional copy operations got movied into *Copy...* sub-menu to keep menu cleaner, 
  also added the *Copy acto name* action to sub-menu.
* *adams-spreadsheet:* The spreadsheet table now has menu items in the header popup menu
  for setting column width/widths manually.
* *adams-spectral-3way-core:* added option to the *SimpleEEMReader* to denormalize the 
  amplitudes using the stored normalization factor.
* *adams-python:* *PythonEnvironment* now allows updating the PYTHONPATH environment
  variable (append, prepend, replace).
* *adams-imaging:* 

  * The *Grid* scheme of the *SubImages* BufferedImageTransformer algorithm
    now offers options for overlaps on x and y axis, to avoid cutting through objects 
    of interest.
  * Renamed transformer *ImageReader* to *ImageFileReader* and sink *ImageWriter* to 
    *ImageFileWriter* to make them consistent with other actors that read/write files.

* *adams-weka* and *adams-weka-lts*: 

  * added *dataset-weights-weka-package 2015.6.16* dependency
  * *SimpleArffLoader* and *SimpleArffSaver* now handle instance weights
  * The *Weka Investigator* now has a popup menu on tabs (right-click) and also allows 
    saving/loading of parameters of individual tabs. *Data* tab can display extra
    column with instance weights now. Closing tabs no longer prompts a dialog, as
    closing can be undone now (via *Tab* menu).


**Additions**

* Added *InList* boolean condition for checking whether incoming string is in list 
  of strings.
* The *CollectionToArray* transformar turns any collection (eg java.util.List or 
  java.util.Set) into an array.
* The *StorageCollectionInsert* transformer updates a collection object in storage 
  with the object(s) passing through.
* The *Find in files* interface allows you to search for files in a directory
  that contain a certain search string. Search text can be either a simple string
  or a regular expression.
* *adams-ml:* added the *CrossValidation* scheme to the file-based dataset generation
  for generating cross-validation folds.
* *adams-weka* and *adams-weka-lts*: 

  * The *WeightsBasedResample* filter (package weka.filters.unsupervised.instance) 
    allows you to resample a dataset using its weights.
  * The *AccumulatedLWLWeights* filter (package weka.filters.unsupervised.instance)
    generates weights for dataset using LWL-based approach, accumulating them
    and normalizing them to [0;1].
  * The *RemoveWithWeights* filter (package weka.filters.unsupervised.instance)
    removes instances outside the specified range.
  * The new *Compare* tab in the *Weka Investigator* allows you to compare two
    datasets via a common ID attribute (string or nominal): lists common
    IDs and ones that are only in first or second dataset, visual comparison
    of internal numeric values in separate tab (mainly aimed at spectral data).

* *adams-imaging:* added simple framework for generating negative regions (regions 
  without annotations) using annotated images as input for automating negative 
  region generation: *NegativeRegions* transformer and class hierarchy of schemes.

