.. title: Updates 2016/12/16
.. slug: updates-2016-12-16
.. date: 2016-12-16 17:31:07 UTC+13:00
.. tags: 
.. category: updates
.. link: 
.. description: 
.. type: text
.. author: FracPete

Alright, this is the final update before I'll be making a release.
Definitely going to happen now next week! :-)

**Fixes**

* Clearing the history of a GenericObjectEditor panel now correctly clears also
  the list of commandlines (and no longer generates exceptions).
* The *SimplePlot* and *SequencePlotter* sinks allow you to turn off the tool 
  tips for the plot.
* The *SerializationHelper* class now always closes all streams to avoid any
  race conditions between JVM and OS.
* Marker data in *SequencePlotter* is now correctly colored and only displayed 
  if corresponding sequence is visible.
* Plot plugins *SimplePlot* and *JFreeChart* for spreadsheet and Instances tables
  now respect the sorting of the column when using subsets.
* *adams-ml:*

  * The *ActualVsPredicted* sink now suppresses the plot tool tips as they
    distract and annoy.

* *adams-spreadsheet:*

  * The *DefaultTypeMapper* now maps ``Types.DECIMAL`` to ``DOUBLE`` instead 
    of ``STRING`` (returned e.g., when using SQL calculations).

* *adams-weka:*

  * Weka Investigator:

    * All textual output, like run information or models, is now read-only.
    * *Save* action now adds the new file to the *recent files* menu.
    * Fixed the notifications when attributes get checked/unchecked in the
      Proprocess tab. Also fixed the *None* button, as it behaved like the 
      *All* one.

  * Added *fastrandomforest* dependency.
  * The *WekaInstanceDumper* did not delete an existing file if buffer size 
    larger than 1 (and *keepExisting* not checked).

* *adams-spectral-dim*: JCampDX readers now have an option to use the filename
  (without extension) as the ID for the spectrum.


**Changes**

* The *GridView* standalone now has an option for adding headers to the grid,
  to better distinguish the individual cells in the grid (uses the names of 
  the actors).
* The *SequencePlotter* received two more options:
  -adjust-to-visible-data, -side-panel-width
* When *checking before saving* is enabled in the *Flow editor*, any error 
  message gets output in the notification area now as well in order to be 
  able to jump to problematic actors.
* The *IntToString* conversion now supports optional byte format strings,
  e.g., to generate strings like ``3,456.89KB``.
* *adams-spreadsheet:*

  * *SpreadSheetMerge* how has a flag to only keep a single instance of the 
    unique ID column in the output: ``-keep-only-single-unique-id``

* *adams-weka:*

  * *WekaInstancesMerge* how has a flag to only keep a single instance of the 
    unique ID attribute in the output: ``-keep-only-single-unique-id``
  * *VotedImbalance* now supports manual list of thresholds (prob of minority 
    class = # of resampled models) for more targeted resampling based on data.
  * Weka Investigator:
  
    * It is now optional whether to sort the attribute names in the dropdown list 
      for the class attribute in the data/preprocess table.
    * The run information can be used as tooltip for result history entries now 
      (classify, cluster, attsel tab).
    * The Classify/Cluster/Attribute Selection tabs now allow you to *Compare output*
      of several results side-by-side.


**Additions**

* The *LongToString* conversion works like the *IntToString* one, but on 
  ``Long`` objects instead.
* *adams-weka:*
  
  * The *MultiPLS* filter operates on multiple Y values for the same range of 
    X attributes and places the results side-by-side. Applies the same PLS
    algorithm to each Xs/Y combination.

* Added the *adams-groovy-webservice* module to *adams-addons*, which uses
  the `groovy-wslite <https://github.com/jwagenleitner/groovy-wslite>`__ library
  for making SOAP and REST webservices easily accessible within Groovy
  (NB: only client-side).

