.. title: Updates 2022/06/23
.. slug: updates-2022-06-23
.. date: 2022-06-23 16:29:00 UTC+12:00
.. tags: 
.. status: 
.. category: 
.. link: 
.. description: 
.. type: text
.. author: FracPete

It's been quiet for too long in terms of updates... A lot of little things have happened, with
dependencies getting upgraded to address security issues, a lot of things happening in the
image annotation space, support for JDBC BLOB/CLOB reading/writing and handlers for the Preview
browser for audio files.

**Fixes**

* The *Pull up* operation in the Flow editor now ensures that the actor names in the parent node
  are unique.
* *adams-weka* and *adams-weka-lts*: The XGBoost classifier now handles classification properly, 
  improved speed at prediction time.
* *adams-imaging:* 

  * *IndividualImageSegmentationLayerReader* now reads layers as ARGB rather than RGB.
  * *IndividualImageSegmentationLayerWriter* now writes proper binary PNG files for the individual layers.
  * The *BlueChannelImageSegmentationWriter* no longer overwrites the JPG base image.
  * The *Eraser* image segmentation tool now works properly when zoomed in or out.
  * The *ImageSegmentationContainer* can be copied now, due to implementing its own getClone() method to
    handle BufferedImage objects properly (can't be serialized).


**Changes**

* The GenericObjectEditor now displays options and help in two separate tabs rather than a split pane,
  which previously could make it look too squashed. Resizing its window when switching classes has 
  also been minimized.
* The *ReportField* transformer is now derived from AbstractArrayProvider and can output the fields as array.
* *adams-compress:* upgraded zip4j to 2.9.1
* *adams-imaging:* 

  * upgraded metadata-extractor to 2.17.0 (CVE-2022-24613, CVE-2022-24613, CVE-2022-24614)
  * The *ImageObjectAnnotator* now offers annotation checks to ensure that only valid annotations 
    can be accepted.
  * The preview browser handlers *BlueChannelImageHandler*, *GrayOrIndexedImageHandler* and *TrimapImageHandler* 
    allow the user now to select an image reader.
  * The *ImageSegmentationContainerFilter* transformer now implements *InPlaceProcessing* and creates a copy of
    the container by default.

* *adams-net:*
  
  * The *SMTPConnection* standalone now allows the specification of the protocols to use (eg TLSv1.2).
  * The *Email* preferences now allow user to specify SMTP protocols to use.
  * Upgraded javax.mail to 1.5.6
  * Upgraded commons-mail to 1.5
  * Upgraded commons-net to 3.8.0

* *adams-meka:* Upgraded Meka to 1.9.6
* *adams-pdf:* Upgraded itextpdf to 5.5.13.3
* *adams-rest:* Upgraded jackson-databind to 2.13.2.1 to address CVE-2020-36518
* *adams-rsync:* Upgraded rsync4j to 3.2.3-9
* *adams-weka* and *adams-weka-lts*: upgraded xgboost4j to 1.5.2


**Additions**

* The tree popup menu in the *Flow editor* now has a sub menu for adding the most common actors
  based on the user's usage.
* The *FromFileHandler* Preview browser handler simply points to a text file containing a setup
  (command-line or nested format) of the actual preview handler to use. Useful for maintaining
  and sharing a range of preview setups.
* The *ByteArrayToJavaObject* and *JavaObjectToByteArray* allow deserializing/serializing
  arbitrary objects from/to byte arrays.
* The *LargeObjectDbReader* source and the *LargeObjectDbWriter* sink allow reading/writing of 
  BLOB/CLOB entities.
* *adams-imaging:* 

  * Added the *LocatedObjectsToReport* conversion, which turns arrays of image objects back into 
    a Report object, to be attached to an image.
  * Added a plugin architecture for object annotation overlays, which makes it easier to create
    more customizable overlays: ObjectAnnotations (Image viewer), ObjectAnnotationsHandler 
    (Preview browser), ObjectAnnotationsFromReport (Draw transformer), ObjectAnnotations (object overlay).
  * The *ImageObjectToVariables* transformer turns the properties of the LocatedObject passing
    through into variables (eg, x/y/width/height).
  * The *SetImageObjectMetaData* transformer allows setting/updating meta-data of individual image
    objects (of type LocatedObject).
  * The *SimpleImageSegmentationAnnotationsHandler* plugin for the Preview browser allows the overlay
    of annotations from PNG files over the actual JPG image.
  * The *ImageSegmentationAnnotationsHandler* generates a more sophisticated interface with the
    various image segmentation layers. Though it is slower than the simple handler, it supports
    also the individual segmentation layers format.
  * Added reader/writer pair for grayscale image segmentation PNG files.
  * Added *Switch label* tool to image segmentation annotation interface, which changes the label 
    from one to another (eg when accidentally mislabeling).
  * Added the *Draw* and *MergeLayers* image segmentation container filters.

* *adams-audio:* 

  * The *AudioFileInfoHandler* in the Preview browser displays information on .mp3 and .wav files.
  * The *AudioFilePlaybackHandler* allows playback of .mp3 and .wav files in the Preview browser.

