.. title: Updates 2017/09/15
.. slug: updates-2017-09-15
.. date: 2017-09-15 16:35:00 UTC+13:00
.. tags: 
.. category: 
.. link: 
.. description: 
.. type: text
.. author: FracPete

The most notable change is that external actors now can have a *file change monitor*
defined, which can trigger reloads of the external flow next time it gets executed.
Useful for flows running in the cloud, which need to reload settings stored in external
flows.

**Fixes**

* The *ImageViewer* now clears selection listeners, left click listeners and image overlays
  when displaying an image.
* Fixed suggestions for actor templates in the Flow editor. *EndlessLoop* template is now the 
  default one.
* The *MultiPaintlet* for sequences now lets the base paintlets set the correct stroke 
  themselves.
* *adams-imaging:* The *MultiImageOverlay* now use allows to select the base overlays again. 
* *adams-spectral-2dim-handheld:* The *ScioLabExportSpectrumReader* now handles the updated
  column names in the CSV export files (eg "spectrum_0 + 740" instead of "spectrum_740.0").
* *adams-webservice:* The *XMLLoggingInInterceptor* now handles multi-part messages when
  pretty-printing the message itself.


**Changes**

* Added a file change monitor to the external actors (*ExternalStandalone/Source/Transformer/Sink*), 
  reloading the external flow at the next execution if the monitor triggered. The first execution
  of the actor is used for initializing the monitor.
* Added *on-the-fly* flag for external actors using flows that get generated at runtime (eg by a script).
* Added support for BUSINESSDAY in date/time expressions (BaseDate, BaseDateTime, BaseDateTimeMsec)
  and in *ExtractDateTimeField* conversion.
* Most interactive actors now allow the selection of callable actor to use as parent component 
  (e.g., for relative location); it is also possible to use the enclosing window (frame/dialog) 
  as parent component rather than the callable actor (eg when the actor is inside a GridView/TabView).
* *adams-imaging:*

  * The *Image processor* visualization now applies the same flow to all the tabs. 
    Adding loading, saving of flow snippets. Zoom for all original/processed can 
    be selected from the menu.

* *adams-latex:* The *LatexSpreadSheetWriter* can output the header now in bold face.
* *adams-rats:* 

  * The *FileLister* rat input can output files as array now as well.
  * The generator used by *LabRat* now returns an array of *Rat* actors.


**Additions**

* Added simple, single file change monitors, accessible through the *FileChanged* transformer.
* Added transformer for updating the 'last modified' timestamp of files: *Touch*
* Added *PromptUser* actor template.
* *adams-spectral-2dim-core:* 

  * added spectrum reader for MPS XRF files.
  * simple spreadsheet writer that outputs spectra with the specified spreadsheet writer:
    *SpreadSheetSpectrumWriter*
  * added several preview handlers for spectra

* *adams-rats:* added generic scripting support for rat generators for *LabRat*, via *Scripted*
  generator.
* *adams-spreadsheet:* added *SpreadSheetSelectSubset* interactive actor that allows the
  user to select a subset from a spreadsheet.

