.. title: Updates 2017/10/13
.. slug: updates-2017-10-13
.. date: 2017-10-13 17:01:00 UTC+13:00
.. tags: 
.. category: 
.. link: 
.. description: 
.. type: text
.. author: FracPete

It is the end of semester and I'm busy marking from my students and working on some 
commercial projects. However, there was still time to fix and improve things. The 
modules that received the most attention are centered around Microsoft's deep learning 
framework CNTK (https://cntk.ai/).

**Fixes**

* The *LocalScopeTransformer* now outputs the name of the last active actor in the
  error message instead of the first one's, in case the last active actor is not
  an actual transformer.
* If you should encounter a problem on MySQL trying to create a table with a
  timestamp column that uses as *DEFAULT '0000-00-00 00:00:00'*, then remove
  the *NO_ZERO_DATE* directive from the *sql_mode* option in your my.cnf/my.ini.
  E.g., use the following: 
  *sql_mode=IGNORE_SPACE,ERROR_FOR_DIVISION_BY_ZERO,NO_ZERO_IN_DATE,NO_AUTO_CREATE_USER,NO_ENGINE_SUBSTITUTION*
* *adams-weka:* The *SpreadSheetSaver* Weka converter no longer loses the 
  configured writer (setOptions now calls the super method first, as it calls resetOptions).
* *adams-cntk-weka:* The *CNTKPrebuiltModel* classifier now handles the flexible structure of 
  CNTK regression models better.


**Changes**

* Upgraded lanterna (terminal applications) to 3.0.0.
* Bumped up CNTK to 2.2.
* The *Preview browser* now uses simple file monitoring to update the display 
  (using the *LastModified* monitor).
* Spreadsheet writers are now stoppable (at least the ones that write the data incrementally).
* Introduced *StopRestrictor* interface for better stopping of flow or parts of flow, affecting
  the *Stop* actor, interactive actors and *LocalScopeTransformer/LocalScopeTrigger*.
* Added *has(sym)* operator that checks whether a certain symbol is present, affecting
  BooleanExpression, MathematicalExpression and ReportMathExpression.
* The *Revert* menu item in the Flow editor now detects if a file was modified on disk.
* The *ProgressBar* sink now has an optonal *title* option for displaying a title string
  within the panel itself, which is useful when displaying multiple progress bars at the 
  same time.


**Additions**

* *OptionProducer* transformer for turning objects into option strings using the
  specified OptionProducer scheme.
* The *CloseCallableDisplay* control actor allows closing of frames of callable actors.
* Added the *Command* source for executing an external command: it is similar to the 
  *Exec* source, but outputs stdout and/or stderr as continuous stream instead of waiting 
  for the process to finish before outputting them.
* *adams-meta:*

  * Added *NewFlow* for generating a flow using a template.
  * *FlowFileReader* reads a flow from disk and *FlowFileWriter* writes it to disk.
  * *FlowDisplay* simply displays the incoming flow as tree (like the flow editor).

* *adams-cntk:*

  * Added a preference panel for CNTK, at this stage only for specifying the binary.
  * The *CNTKSetup* standalone allows overriding the global settings (ie binary)
    for CNTK within a flow.
  * With the *CNTKBrainScriptExec* flow it is possible to execute a brainscript
    and display the output. With the usual string processing facilities in ADAMS, 
    you can also plot the performance of the network per epoch, e.g., plotting the RMSE.
  * Added reader for CNTK text files: *CNTKSpreadSheetReader*
  * Added *CNTKModelReader* and *CNTKModelInfo* for reading a model and outputting 
    information about a model.

Have a great Friday 13th! ;-)
