.. title: Updates 2017/07/21
.. slug: updates-2017-07-21
.. date: 2017-07-21 17:15:07 UTC+13:00
.. tags: 
.. category: 
.. link: 
.. description: 
.. type: text
.. author: FracPete

The new semester started last week, so I was busy with my students. Development has mainly
happened around *deeplearning4j* and prediction support for Microsoft's deeplearning library 
*CNTK*.

**Fixes**

* *LoadBalancer:* fixed losing of outer variables; uses a Flow control actor now internally 
  for better encapsulation.


**Changes**

* Added support for outputting relative paths with the *FileSystemSearch* source: 
  LocalDirectorySearch, LocalDirectorySearchWithComparator, LocalDirectorySearchWithCustomSort, 
  LocalFileSearch
* Panels managed by the *DisplayPanelManager* get re-used via their unique ID now properly (eg 
  when using a variable), not just when mergable. Allows out of order updates of sequence plots 
  now.
* The *Min* and *Max* transformers can return 1-based indices now.
* Added support for *ADAMS_LIBRARY_PATH* environment variable to *adams.core.management.Launcher*: 
  its content gets supplied to the JVM via *-Djava.library.path* (used for native libraries like 
  CNTK, MKL).
* *adams-dl4j:* 

  * Added ability to *DL4JTrainModel* transformer for testing the model on a test 
    set (split off the training data) and output the best model found so far, with associated 
    statistic(s).
  * Added support for criteria to stop training to *DL4JTrainModel* rather than just having
    fixed number of epochs.

* *adams-weka:* The *WekaFilter* transformer can make use of storage and source actor now for 
  obtaining the actual filter to use, not just serialized file or the filter specification.


**Additions**

* Added the *ArrayNormalize* array statistic, which normalizes an array to sum up to 1.0.
* *adams-cntk:* 

  * added support for applying CNTK models: *CNTKModelApplier*.
  * added spreadsheet writer for CNTK text file format: *CNTKSpreadSheetWriter*
  * added image feature generator: *DefaultCNTK*

* *adams-cntk-weka:* Added pseudo-classifier that uses a pre-built model: *functions.CNTKPrebuiltModel*
* *adams-dl4j:* Added transformer for randomizing dataset: *DL4JRandomizeDataset*
* *adams-imaging:* 

  * Added *ScaleReportObjects* transformer for scaling objects defined in reports.
  * Added example flow for training an OpenCV Haar cascade from annotated images:
    *adams-imaging-opencv_train_haar.flow*

* *adams-imaging-openimaj:* added generic object detector class hierarchy, to be used by
  *adams.flow.transformer.locateobjects.OpenIMAJObjectDetector*
* *adams-spreadsheet:* added class hierarchy for processors that work on the selected 
  rows in a spreadsheet table, e.g., copying files using the filename from the specified
  column. Functionality available through *SpreadSheetDisplay* sink.

