.. title: new
.. slug: new
.. date: 2016-06-25 14:27:07 UTC+13:00
.. tags: updates
.. category: 
.. link: 
.. description: 
.. type: text
.. author: FracPete

This week was mostly focused on *external actors*, fixing a bug of disappearing tokens
which has been around for a while.

**Fixes**

* Fixed *disappearing tokens* when using external actors in conjunction with variables.
* *adams-spreadsheet:* The *TransposeSpreadSheet* conversion now keeps the cell types
  and no longer re-parses the content, making it also more efficient.
* *adams-meta:* The *include external actors* now can be edited in the Flow editor
  through the "External actor -> Edit" action.


**Changes**

* Conversion *AnyToString* now accepts arrays as well (actually, *Unknown* which can 
  be arrays).
* *adams-spreadsheet:* The *SpreadSheetCellFinderToPositions* conversion has been 
  deprecated. Instead, use the *SpreadSheetCellFinder* transformer in conjunction
  with the *SpreadSheetCellLocationToPosition* conversion.
* The *find* option of the *StringIndexOf* transformer now accepts backquoted strings, 
  enabling the user to search for tab or new line using \t or \n.
* *adams-imaging:* metadata-extractor library upgraded to 2.9.1.
* Made the *Swap* action in the Flow editor more flexible by introducing a class
  hierarchy for suggesting actors to swap with 
  (``adams.gui.flow.tree.actorswap.AbstractActorSwapSuggestion``).
* *adams-rats:* The rat input *FileLister* now has an option to skip files that are
  currently in use, e.g., large files that are still being written.
* *adams-imaging-boofcv:* the *connect rule* is now an option for the BinaryContours
  and CannyBinary object location algorithms, as well as for the BinaryContours and
  CannyEdgeDetection image transformers.


**Additions**

* The *PropertiesToVariables* allows you to turn properties, that match a regular
  expression, into variables (the property value becomes the variable value).
* *adams-spreadsheet:* 

  * With the *SpreadSheetCellFinder* transformer you can locate
    cells (and output the row/column pairs) that match certain criteria defined by
    the supplied CellFinder. Allows you to locate the row in a spreadsheet with a certain
    value of a specific column, like finding the row with a certain ID.
  * Conversions for *CellLocation* objects: SpreadSheetCellLocationToPosition, 
    SpreadSheetCellLocationToCoordinates
  * New spreadsheet reader/writer for Java props files: PropertiesSpreadSheetReader,
    PropertiesSpreadSheetWriter

* *adams-meta:* added option transfer schemes between *external* and *include external*
  actor pairs (and vice versa).

