.. title: Updates 2020/09/11
.. slug: updates-2020-09-11
.. date: 2020-09-11 16:55:00 UTC+13:00
.. tags: 
.. status:
.. category: 
.. link: 
.. description: 
.. type: text
.. author: FracPete

Lately, it has been quieter than usual with the updates on the ADAMS front.
However, that doesn't mean development has stopped. Quite the opposite. At the
moment, most of the work goes into our `User-friendly Deep Learning <https://waikato-ufdl.github.io/>`__
framework. It consists of a Python API backend, Python/Java API clients and
ADAMS workflows (in additional modules outside the usual ADAMS repos).

**Fixes**

* The *SelectObjects* source actor now handles enums as well (couldn't 
  instantiate them from strings if attached as variable).
* using patched version of jide-oss now (3.6.18.1). to avoid problems under OSX
* The *ArrayToChunks* transformer no longer misses to output the last chunk 
  (under certain circumstances).
* The *ExternalFlow* standalone actor now updates the programmatic variables 
  for the external flows before executing them.
* *adams-imaging:* The *SimpleCrop* cropping algorithm now ensures that the
  coordinates are within the bounds of the image.


**Changes**

* The *EnterValue* source can now display vertical buttons as well when
  presenting multiple values.
* When using the PlainText renderer for actor annotations in the Flow
  editor, the sub-string *TODO* will automatically switch the color to
  RED (default is BLUE).
* The *Convert* transformer now displays any additional information that 
  the conversion provides as well.
* In the Flow editor, the actor path is now displayed in the right section 
  of the statusbar, independent of other status messages.
* The *BooleanExpression* and *MathematicalExpression* parsers now support 
  random number generation via rand/randint (seeded and unseeded) methods.
* The *ExternalFlow* standalone can execute flows in headless and non-interactive 
  modes now.
* *adams-audio:* The *AudioPlayback* sink can playback MP3 now.
* *adams-net:* upgraded requests4j to 0.2.0
* *adams-imaging:* The *ImageObjectInfo* transformer now has the ability 
  to forward the bitmap stored in the LocatedObject (if any) by using BITMAP 
  as info type.
* *adams-pdf:* The *PDFCreate* transformer can stop during PDF generation now
  if the flow gets stopped - useful for large PDFs.
* *adams-spreadsheet:* 

  * The *SpreadSheetSelectSubset* transformer now allows double-clicking a 
    single row to select it and close the dialog.i Also added option for 
    multi-selection (default) or single-selection.
  * The *SpreadSheetDisplay* sink now offers previews for the selected rows.


**Additions**

* The *SimpleMenu* flow template generates (vertical) button-based menu using
  the supplied strings as captions for the buttons
* The *FileProcessingWithProgressBar* flow template generates a Trigger with a
  FileSystemSearch that updates the user on the progress of the files being
  processed with a ProgressBar.
* The *FileBrowser* sink displays a file or directory with the system's file browser.
* The *FileValueDefinition* plugin for the *EnterManyValues* source allows better
  control over how to select files (extensions, all files filter). The *DirectoryValueDefinition* 
  allows customizing the title of the dialog.
* The *HasVariableValue* boolean condition is a simple way of checking a variable
  against a specific string value.
* The new *Attached variables* tab in the Flow editor allows one to see all the
  variables attached to the selected actor and their current values in a table.
* *adams-imaging:* 

  * The *ImageLabeler* transformer can be used for image classification labeling tasks.
  * The following algorithms for generating negative regions have been added:
    *MaxDimensions* (for limiting the upper size of regions), *RandomRegions* (generates 
    randomly placed and sized regions).
  * The *ColorCounts* BufferedImage feature generator counts the occurrences of every
    single color in an image and outputs them alongside the hex value of the color.

* *adams-audio:* The *MP3ToWave* sink converts an MP3 file to a WAV one.
* *adams-spectral-2dim-core:* Added the *WaveNumberExpression* filter for modifying a 
  spectrum's wave numbers via a mathematical expression.

