.. title: Updates 2018/04/20
.. slug: updates-2018-04-20
.. date: 2018-04-12 16:47:07 UTC+13:00
.. tags: 
.. category: 
.. link: 
.. description: 
.. type: text
.. author: FracPete

Spent a lot of time trying to get things working with Java 9. The usual backwards
compatibility mantra got a serious beating with Java 9. ADAMS now compiles with
Java 9, but I still recommend to stick with Java 8 for a while.

Futhermore, there is now a separate module for *ffmpeg* called *adams-ffmpeg*, 
rather than being tucked away in the *adams-video* module. In addition to that,
I added an experimental module for audio processing called *adams-audio*.

**Fixes**

* Now compiles with Java 9.
* Auto-registering of flows now registers after the flow ID has been initialized
  rather than with 0.
* *adams-imaging:* 

  * The draw operations *ObjectCentersFromReport* and *ObjectLocationsFromReport*
    now use the user-specified font.
  * The image overlays *ObjectCentersOverlayFromReport* and *ObjectLocationsOverlayFromReport*
    now use the user-specified font.


**Changes**

* Upgraded sizeofag to 1.0.2.
* Upgraded jclasslocator to 0.0.10.
* Removed archetype module.
* Added keyboard shortcuts to the *Flow editor* for bringing up the actor tree to search for 
  an actor to insert, skips the GOE dialog: Ctrl+J (here), Ctrl+Alt+J (after), Ctrl+Shift+J (beneath)
* *adams-spectral-2dim-core:* The *Evaluator* transformer now allows to turn off 
   cloning of container storing the evaluation results.
* *adams-webservices:* updated Apache CXF to 3.2.4 to make it compile with Java 9 
  (10 doesn't work yet, but the upcoming 3.2.5 release has a fix for that).
* *adams-meka:* Upgraded to MEKA 1.9.2.
* *adams-imaging:*

  * The draw operations *ObjectCentersFromReport* and *ObjectLocationsFromReport*
    now offer x/y offsets for the label.
  * The image overlays *ObjectCentersOverlayFromReport* and *ObjectLocationsOverlayFromReport*
    now offer x/y offsets for the label.
  * *ImageObjectInfo* now allows to output the *INDEX_STRING* and *INDEX_INT* as well.


**Additions**

* Added support for publish/subscribe: *InitPublishSubscribe* standalone for 
  initializing pub/sub data structure in storage and the *Publish* sink 
  for broadcasting the data to all the subscribers of the specified pub/sub
  data structure.
* Added platform specific *file-in-use* checks: *Windows* and *NonWindows*
  (*Default* combines both).
* Added the *JsonObjectToMap* conversion to turn a JSON object into a
  simple map.
* Added the *ExtractSimpleContainerContent* conversion to retrieve the content
  of simple containers.
* Added the *Go to* menu item to the Flow editor popup menu, which allows you
  to jump to the reference actor (eg a callable actor).

* *adams-rats:* 
  
  * added support for using sockets for sending and receiving data, 
    aptly named *Socket* for input and output (adams-rats-sockets.flow).
  * added support for publish/subscribe with *Subscribe* rat input and
    *Publish* rat output. Simpler and more efficient than queues for
    notifying multiple Rat actors at once.
  * added Django web application for remote control of Rat actors that
    are available through the RatControl actor, using a REST webservice
    for communication.

* *adams-weka:* The *SocketFacade* meta-classifier communicates via sockets 
  with a prediction scheme, can be used to interface with any programming 
  language as long as communication occurs via sockets.

* *adams-imaging:*

  * added *BasicStatistics* feature generator (for buffered images).

* *adams-audio:* new module for some basic audio processing of WAV files,
  generating spectrograms (as image or tabular data).
* added separate *adams-ffmpeg* module, to make ffmpeg functionality available 
  in *adams-audio* and *adams-video*.

* *adams-ml:* added basic framework for calculating summary statistics with the
  *SummaryStatistics* transformer.

* *adams-spectral-2dim-core:* added the *SimpleSpectralInstanceGenerator* instances
  generator, which does not output a class attribute in the generated Weka Instances
  object.

