.. title: Updates 2018/05/25
.. slug: updates-2018-05-25
.. date: 2018-05-25 17:06:07 UTC+13:00
.. tags: 
.. category: 
.. link: 
.. description: 
.. type: text
.. author: FracPete

A lot of work went into the *3-way data* module, as well as proper
support for polygons in the image annotation framework. The *audio*
module also got a bit of love.

Furthermore, some user interfaces got switched from multi-tab
to multi-page ones, freeing up vertical screen real estate (most 
people of have wides-screen monitors!).

**Fixes**

* External actors that use a file monitor can once again use variables
  in the file name for the external flow.
* The flow panel and flow tree now get focused better, to enable a 
  smoother keyboard interaction.
* *adams-imaging:* The *ImageAnnotator* now uses a scrollpane to display 
  more buttons than fit on screen.
* *adams-weka* and *adams-weka-lts*: the *MultiSearch* meta-classifier
  now allows you to select the search algorithm for the parameter space.


**Changes**

* *CsvSpreadSheetWriter* now allows an empty quote character, which will
  suppress any quoting.
* Switched the following applications from multi-tab interface to a multi-page 
  one in order to manage more tabs/pages at the same time without decreasing
  the vertical screen real estate (these pages can be detached/reattached):

  * *Flow editor*
  * *adams-imaging:* *Image processor*
  * *adams-heatmap:* *Heatmap viewer*
  * *adams-spreadsheet:* *Spreadsheet file viewer*


**Additions**

* The implicit variable *flow_filename_restore* contains a file name based
  on the full file name of the flow, but with the *.props* extension. To be
  used for interactive actors like *EnterManyValues* to restore the entered 
  values.
* Added *Favorite actor* (here, after, beneath) keyboard actions 
  (Ctrl+E, Ctrl+Alt+E, Ctrl+Shift+E).
* *adams-spectral-2dim-core:* added meta spectrum reader that reads spectra 
  from zip files: *ZippedSpectrumReader*.
* *adams-spectral-3way-core*:

  * added heatmap viewer for 3-day data, like 3D fluorescent spectra (EEM)
  * added experimental support for building and applying the multi-way
    algorithms available from: https://github.com/waikato-datamining/multiway-algorithms
  * added lots of conversion to and fro tensors, 3-way data and spreadsheets

* *adams-audio:*

  * With the *AudioRecorder* source it is possible to record audio from
    a microphone.
  * The *WaveToAmplitudes* conversion extracts amplitudes from Wave object, 
    absolute or normalized
  * Added *Resample* wave filter for using different sample rate.
  * Added *Cut* wave filter for cutting out a portion of a wave.
  * Added sink for playing back audio files: *AudioPlayback*

* *adams-compress:* added support for *xz* compression via *Xz/UnXz*
  transformers and *XzTextFileReader*.

* *adams-imaging:* 

  * Added the *Grayscale* buffered image transformer with customizable 
    lumiance parameters via a class hierarchy (supporting BT 601, 709 and 2020).
  * The *Rotate* object filter rotates objects by the specified angle.
  * ViaAnnotations transformer generates annotations for VIA (VGG Image Annotator 
    - http://www.robots.ox.ac.uk/~vgg/software/via/)
  * Added support for polygon annotations via the *PolygonPainter* 
    (default is RectanglePainter).

