.. title: Updates 2025/06/17
.. slug: updates-2025-06-17
.. date: 2025-06-17 08:55:00 UTC+12:00
.. tags: 
.. status: 
.. category: 
.. link: 
.. description: 
.. type: text
.. author: FracPete

A bunch of never used modules got retired, but new ones got added as well:
*adams-djl* integrates the Deep Java Library (DJL, https://djl.ai/) and
*adams-djl-weka* makes the library within Weka (currently only as regressor).
Lots of little bug fixes and improvements, as usual.


**Fixes**

* Reconnecting to a database now works more reliably.
* Cancelling a GenericObjectEditor now restores back to the first undo point.
* The *Documentation* help menu entry now uses absolute paths to open the
  PDF files, to avoid placeholders in the path.
* *adams-core*: 

  * The *PromptUser* boolean condition, when displayed in the notification 
    panel, now sets the "run" icon again after closing the notification area.
  * The *Branch* control actor no longer incorrectly uses parallel execution 
    in sequential mode (ie when 1 thread is requested).
  * The *ProgressBar* no longer outputs the current token in the console
    alongside the actual percentage.
  * *Flow*, *LocalScopeSubProcess*, *LocalScopeTee* and *LocalScopeTrigger*
    now use block instead of object synchronization when accessing variables 
    and storage, to avoid GUI lockups when debugging a flow.

* *adams-git:* The git settings helper now handles missing global user/email.
* *adams-imaging:* The *ImageSegmentationAnnotator* transformer now correctly
  displays the current image's name.
* *adams-weka* and *adams-weka-lts*: 

  * Renamed duplicates classes by adding suffix 2 
    (weka.classifiers.meta.WeightedInstancesHandlerWrapper and 
    weka.filters.unsupervised.instance.RemoveDuplicates) to resolve serialization
    issues.
  * The *RemoveOutliers* filter no longer throws exception in multi-threaded mode 
    when successfully finishing aggregation of evaluation data.


**Changes**

* *adams-core:* 

  * The *SelectArraySubset* transformer now supports basic headless interaction,
    allowing the user to select a range.
  * The *executeOnError* and *executeOnFinish* properties of the *Flow* control
    actor are now a class hierarchy rather than just a FlowFile, giving better
    control over the actor being executed. The FromFile plugin is the equivalent 
    of the previous functionality.
  * The *Flow editor* now has keeps a history of actor paths that were entered
    when locating an actor (via right-click popup on the input field). A similar
    history is available when search for text in the flow.
  * The *Flow editor* now maintains the view state (expanded/selected actors)
    of the last 50 flows with a filename, restoring the state when reopening them.
  * When the user changes names of variables/storage items in the *Flow editor* and 
    then cancels the propagation, another prompt allows the user to ignore name 
    changes from then on rather than going through the flow editor menu 
    (the prompt to ignore name changes is only shown once per flow).
  * The *Text editor* now keeps a simple history of search terms.
  * switched to net.sf.trove4j:core 3.1.0
  * added basic support for NANOSECS/NANOSECS_LONG for date/time handling/conversions
  * The *FileValueDefinition*, as used by the *EnterManyValues* source, now allows 
    selecting multiple files when the "multiSelect" property is checked.
  * In the *Flow editor*, the *Run* menu items and toolbar buttons now double as 
    "Restart" ones if the flow is already running.

* *adams-db:* removed the JTDS MS SQL Server JDBC driver due to throwing an AbstractMethodError 
  when calling net.sourceforge.jtds.jdbc.JtdsConnection.isValid(...) - ironically, this problem
  occurred due to the recent changes to making reconnects more reliable.
* *adams-excel:* Upgraded poi/poi-ooxml to 5.4.0 to address CVE-2025-31672
* *adams-ml:* The *ActualVsPredictedPlot* now allows selecting of points via enclosing polygon
  (SHIFT+left for vertex, SHIFT+right to close polygon)
* *adams-visualstats:* The *Histogram* sink now accepts arrays of Flow/Long/Integer as well,
  not just Double
* *adams-weka* and *adams-weka-lts*: 

  * Removed WekaExcel and WekaODF dependencies, can be achieved via the SpreadSheetLoader 
    and the Excel/ODFSpreadSheetLoader base reader.
  * The *ClassifierErrors* and *Predictions* output generators in the *Weka Investigator*
    now allow the removal of instances in the dataset the predictions originated from
    (only works for cross-validation and explicitly loaded test sets). The help for
    ClassifierErrors lists the combinations of mouse-clicks and keyboard modifiers.
  * The *WekaPredictionsToInstances* and *WekaPredictionsToSpreadSheet* transformers
    and the *Predictions* output generator in the Weka Investigator now allow 
    computing the relative error (= (act-pred)/act).


**Additions**

* *adams-core:* 

  * Added the *DatabaseConnectionValid* source actor, which outputs a boolean
    depending on the state of the current database connection.
  * Added the *FileChanged* boolean flow condition.
  * Added conversions *OneBasedToZeroBased* and *ZeroBasedToOneBased* for converting
    integer indices.

* *adams-djl-weka:* integrates Deep Java Library (DJL) in Weka
* *adams-git:* added git actions to the *File commander*
* *adams-json:* added the *StringToObject* conversion which uses the Jackson ObjectMapper
  to automatically map the JSON onto an object of the specified class.
* *adams-ml:* the *RemoveOutliers* control actor now stores the indices of the outliers in
  the generated container as well.
* *adams-scripts:* Added the *create_desktop_entry.sh* script for quickly creating .desktop
  entry files under Linux.
* *adams-weka* and *adams-weka-lts*: 
  
  * Added ExcelLoader/ExcelSaver Weka converters for native reading/writing of MS Excel files.
  * The *AdditiveRegressionUserDefined* meta-classifier works like AdditiveRegression but 
    uses user-defined classifiers for iterating over rather than a predefined number of 
    iterations using the same base classifier.

**Retired modules**

* adams-pyro4
* adams-pyro5
* adams-python-weka
* adams-python-weka-lts

Retired modules are available from here:

https://github.com/waikato-datamining/adams-discontinued

