.. title: Updates 2016/07/15
.. slug: updates-2016-07-15
.. date: 2016-07-15 17:17:07 UTC+13:00
.. tags: updates
.. category: 
.. link: 
.. description: 
.. type: text
.. author: FracPete

Many changes and fixes regarding data processing and improvements in the GUI this time round.


**Fixes**

* *adams-twitter:* update the link to the link search API used by the *TwitterQuery*
  source actor.
* Adding large number of objects in the *GenericArrayEditor* is now much faster.
* *Preview browser:* using a split pane now for local/archive files to better utilize the 
  vertical space, also fixed the display of search box for archive files.
* *adams-compress:* the *listFiles* methods of *ZipUtils* and *TarUtils* now skip 
  directories in archives when specified.


**Changes**

* Debugging is now also possible when using external actors, include external actors
  and internal actor handlers. An *expanded* version of the flow is then
  used in a new tab for debugging. However, this does not work in case of
  external actors having a variable attached to the actor file.
* Pushes dimensions of dialogs into ``GUIHelper.props`` file, using defaults for
  normal, small, tiny and large ones (``Default[(Small|Tiny|Large)]Dialog.(Width|Height)``).
* *ConditionalTee/Trigger* now use *Expression* as the default boolean condition, to align 
  with *ConditionalSubProcess* (and you simply use *Expression* more often then *Counting*)
* *RaiseError*'s message can contain backquoted characters (``\\t`` and ``\\n``) and variables now.
* Added ability to add a scope restriction to *Breakpoint* actors. This is useful when
  debugging multi-threaded flows (e.g., when using *Rats*), restricting the scope - and
  therefore the stepping through the flow - to a sub-flow. With the new automatic *suggestions*
  for breakpoints, the scope is automatically set for breakpoints within *Rat* actors.
* Added support for *custom* actions for enclosing actors: ``adams.gui.flow.tree.enclose.AbstractEncloseActors``.
  Migrated code for *DisplayPanelManager* and added action for *TryCatch*.
* Removed the *Open remote flow* functionality from Flow editor, as it will get replaced
  in the future by the more powerful/flexible remote command functionality.
* The *XMLFileWriter* sink and the *DOMToString* conversion now support pretty printing.
* *adams-rats:* 

  * added proper event-driven support in Rats. 
  * *AbstractBufferedRatInput* uses blocking poll. 
  * (most) webservices are now buffered rat inputs to immediately react to data
    being received, making it unnecessary to wrap them in an InputPolling "meta"
    rat input 

* *adams-ml:* it is now possible to restrict the axes of the *ActualVsPredictedPlot*, as well
  as placing the plot on the screen like with other graphical ones and use it within the
  *DisplayPanelManager* sink.


**Additions**

* Added basic YAML support, using ``java.util.List`` and 
  ``java.util.Map`` objects:

  * actors: YamlFileReader transformer, YamlFileWriter sink
  * conversions: YamlStringToList, YamlStringToMap, ArrayToYamlString, 
    ListToYamlString, MapToYamlString

* Added more JSON conversions:
  
  * *ListToJson* converts a ``java.util.List``.
  * *MapToJson* converts a ``java.util.Map``.

* Added support for pretty-printing of JSON: 
  JsonFileWriter sink, JsonToString conversion
* Added JSON handler to preview browser that displays data as pretty-print text:
  JsonPrettyPrintHandler
* Added menu item to the Flow editor's tree popup menu that allows you
  to compare two selected actors, displauing a diff view (you may have
  to remove the ``$HOME/.adams/FlowEditor.props`` file).
* Made it possible to swap between *SetVariable* standalone and transformer
  (and vice versa).
* Added notification actions for running/debugging the current flow.
* New transformer for indentating strings (even multi-line strings): *StringIndent*                     
* *GetMapKeys* transformer retrieves all the (string) keys from a ``java.util.Map``
  object.
* *HasQueue* flow condition checks whether the specified queue is present.
* Added ability to list TODOs in flow (search actor name and annotation),
  using a user-supplied regular expression (*ListTODOs* processor).
* Added the *Class help* menu to the *Help* menu of the main menu, to allow 
  displaying the help for class.
* Added dialogs to the main menu for pretty printing XML and JSON (only developer mode).
* Added ``adams/flow/control/Flow.props`` properties file. The boolean *AutoRegister* 
  property allows system-wide registering of flows with RunningFlowsRegistry (which can 
  be queried by remote commands), default is ``false``.
* *adams-meta:* Added actor swap and option transfer for *Callable/CopyCallable*
  actor pairs.
* *adams-ml:* Added simple spreadsheet reader/writer for ARFF format for
  ARFF support without *adams-weka* dependency.
* *adams-webservice:* added interceptors for logging of SOAP envelopes,
  XMLLoggingGenerator and XMLLoggingGenerator.
* *adams-spectral-core:* added reader/writer for spectra in JSON format.

Have a good weekend!
