.. title: Updates 2019/01/30
.. slug: updates-2019-01-30
.. date: 2019-01-30 15:10:00 UTC+13:00
.. tags: 
.. category: 
.. link: 
.. description: 
.. type: text
.. author: FracPete

A lot of minor UI improvements and dependency refreshments happened since the release 
in December last year. New in the flow is EXIF tag support and communication with 
Python processes across the network using Pyro4 (Python Remote Object, https://github.com/irmen/Pyro4).

**Fixes**

* Multi page panes are now showing border again when focused, to make it easier to
  see which widget has the focus.
* The *Preview browser* did not maintain correctly its internal list of content handlers,
  resulting in apparently random preview handlers getting selected.
* The *SQL Workbench* now disables the user interface while a query is being executed.
* Chooser panels (eg for dates, files or colors) now change the font color to RED if
  the entered value is not in a valid format and will revert to the default value 
  when opening the dialog via the *...* button. The *Use default* menu item was added
  to allow the user to revert back to the default value.
* *EnterManyValues* now shows the tool tip of the underlying component if there was
  no explicit help string entered.
* The sources *EnterValue*, *EnterManyValues*, *SelectDirectory* and *SelectFile*
  now honor any information recovered from restoring files during non-interactive
  and/or headless operation.
* *adams-weka* and *adams-weka-lts*: the transformers *WekaFilter*, *WekaClassifying*
  and *WekaClustering* are now threadsafe when using the internally used Weka object
  (previously, when using a shared model in storage in concurrent situations, it could
  end up in an unsuable state).
* *adams-net:* upgraded tika-core to 1.20 due to https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2018-17197
* *adams-ml:* The *CrossValidation* scheme for preparing file-based datasets now
  generates correct leave-one-out datasets.
* *adams-groovy:* Upgraded Groovy to 2.5.5 to make the Groovy Console work with Java versions
  9 and later.
* *adams-video:* fixed user interface issues in *VLCjPlayer* and *Annotator*


**Changes**

* Retired the obsolete *NamedSetup* framework.
* The *Find in files* tool now has all its operations in a button with a drop-down list, using
  a class hierarchy. New actions are: *Copy to...* and *Move to...*. The *View...* action
  now uses the Preview browser.
* How graphical actors are being displays is now handled by a class hierarchy, replacing
  the *displayInEditor* option. The default scheme (appropriately named *Default*) just 
  displaying it on top of all windows. With *DisplayInEditor*, the window gets displayed 
  in Flow editor window. *NoDisplay* suppresses the display completely and *Background* 
  displays behind all other windows. The *ChangeDisplayType* actor processor allows you
  to change the type(s) to a new one.
* The menu item *MakeInteractive* of the Flow editor tree popup allows one to turn one 
  or more *SetVariable* standalones into an interactive sub-flow (Trigger/EnterManyValues/MapToVariables).
* The *DefaultValueDefinition* used by *EnterManyValues* now offers an option to output
  paths (file or directory) with forward slashes.
* All value definitions, as used by *EnterManyValues* can be now disabled/enabled, which
  makes it easier to maintain testing/production ones side by side.
* The *LocalScopeTransformer* and *LocalScopeTrigger* control actors now add the 
  programmatic variables to their local scope when using *EMPTY* for variable propagation: 
  flow_filename_long, flow_filename_short, flow_filename_restore, flow_dir, flow_id, 
  is_headless, has_gui, project_name, project_home, project_modules
* The *JsonFileReader* can now enforce output type (OBJECT or ARRAY) if know beforehand, 
  default is ANY (no enforcement)
* Added ability to flag a flow as *active* and manage that one through the *Active* 
  menu and the buttons in the toolbar that have the little *A* in the bottom right corner. 
  This is useful when editing external flows, as the switching back to the main flow 
  is now no longer necessary.
* The pause/resume and stop buttons are now also available through a debug flow perspective.
* Removed the Run/Debug flow notification area actions.
* *adams-spreadsheet:* the sinks *JFreeChartFileWriter* and *JFreeChartPlot* now allow
  the selection of shapes for the data point markers, the background color is now white 
  (aligned with other ADAMS plots) and the plot color can be selected as well.
* *adams-weka* and *adams-weka-lts*: 

  * The *WekaEvaluationSummary* transformer now has options for custom titles for summary, 
    confusion matrix and class details.
  * Updated Weka dependencies to 3.9.3-fork-0.0.4 and 3.9.0-fork-0.0.9 respectively
    (fixes duplicate output when using Logback or log4j; AbstractClassifier.forName
    no longer casts to AbstractClassifier, but Classifier).
      
* *adams-jython:* upgraded Jython to 2.7.1b3.



**Additions**

* *adams-imaging:* 

  * added image reader/writer using the Apache Commons Imaging library, added preview handlers
    for images and meta-data using this library as well. This will eventually replace the
    Sanselan-based classes.
  * The *ExifTagOperation* transformer allows you to work on the EXIF data in files, e.g.,
    read/write/remove fields or check for fields. The *HasExifTag* boolean condition checks
    whether the specified tag is present.

* *adams-python:* 

  * added *Pyro4* (https://github.com/irmen/Pyro4, https://github.com/irmen/Pyrolite) support: 
    PyroNameServer, PyroStandalone, PyroSource, PyroTransformer, PyroSink
  * added *PythonVenvExec* source for executing any executable in a virtualenv's bin/Scripts 
    directory.

* *adams-maps:* added *GPSDistance* conversion for computing distance (in meters) between
  two GPS points.

