.. title: Updates 2017/03/31
.. slug: updates-2017-03-31
.. date: 2017-03-31 16:35:07 UTC+13:00
.. tags: 
.. category: 
.. link: 
.. description: 
.. type: text
.. author: FracPete

Many little improvements happened across the modules. But the major new
additions are better support for generating *LaTeX* documents and the *control
center for remote commands*. 
You can now easily launch and monitor flows on remote machines (as long as
ADAMS is running and listening, of course). The main use case for the
remote command framework is to manage ADAMS instances that run on servers as
daemons/services, i.e., in the background without any user interface.
Launching ADAMS through scripts as daemons/services has been possible for quite
a while now, but the major drawback was to interact with these processes. This
is now possible to some extent.

**Fixes**

* The boolean condition of the *Breakpoint* dialog can be updated at runtime again.
* The *SetPlotContainerValue* transformer now handles non-numeric values for X/Y as well,
  e.g., when using the *SimpleFixedLabelTickGenerator*.
* Added some general post-processing to the actor suggestions in the Flow editor, eliminating
  *silly* suggestions.
* Disabled menu items for running/debugging of a flow that is representing a *debug* view already.
* *adams-spreadsheet:* removed implementation of *generates()* method in the *SpreadSheetExtractArray* 
  transformer, as the output can be array or element-by-element (the transformer reported the wrong type).
* The *SequencePlotter* sink now centers the only data point on X and Y now.
* The SimplePlot/JFreeChart plugins for plotting row/column in a spreadsheet table no longer fail when
  selecting a subset of points while containing non-numeric data points.
* The *SequencePlotter* and *SimplePlot* now take (optional) errors into account when generating min/max 
  of X/Y for data points, fitting the complete plot into the viewport when using no fixed X or Y ranges.
* *adams-weka:* 

  * Modified loading of datasets in the *Investigator* to avoid file locking issues
    on Windows.
  * Introduced new *Action* button in the *Weka Investigator* to avoid the *Save* action being 
    disabled when selecting more than one dataset and blocking all other actions.
  * The *WekaNewExperiment* now materializes any variables attached (e.g., datasets or classifiers)
    before forwarding the experiment object.
  * The *WekaEvaluationValues* transformer now works with *fake* Evaluation objects generated by 
    the *WekaSpreadSheetToPredictions* transformer as well.
  * The SimplePlot/JFreeChart plugins for plotting row/column in instances table no longer fail when
    selecting a subset of points while containing non-numeric data points.


**Changes**

* The *DumpStorage/DumpVariables* sources now support Properties/Map as output type as well.
* Upgraded JDBC drivers:

  * sqlite to 3.16.1
  * hsqldb to 2.3.4
  * MySQL to 6.0.6
  * PostgreSQL to 42.0.0

* *adams-maps:* Upgraded PostGIS JDBC driver to 2.2.1
* *adams-access:* Upgraded MS Access driver jackcess to 2.1.6
* *adams-weka:* The *WekaSpreadSheetToPredictions* transformer now allows to recreate
  *fake* Weka Evaluation objects for nominal classes, by using columns that store the
  class distribution.
* *adams-rats:* added support for *MANUAL* mode for Rat actors; default mode is *CONTINUOUS*.
  Useful for *one-off* operations, actionable through the *RatControl* control interface.


**Additions**

* Added conversions for generation key-value pairs: *MapToKeyValuePairs* and *PropertiesToKeyValuePairs*.
* More number conversions: NumberToByte/Int/Long/Float/Double
* Added transformer for removing a report value based on the supplied boolean expression:
  *DeleteReportValueByExpression*
* Added sink for feeding into Java logging framework: *JavaLogging*
* Remote command framework:

  * New interface for managing remote command execution: *Remote control center*. Available from
    the main menu *Program -> Remote commands* sub menu.
  * Added command for sending flow control commands (pause/resume/stop/restart): *SendFlowControlCommand*.
  * Added command for stopping a remote ADAMS instance gracefully (can stop registered 
    flows first): *Stop*
  * The *RunRemoteFlow* command loads a remote flow and executes it, optionally registers it.

* New color providers for plots:

  * *RegExpColorProvider*: The plot names are matched against the regexp/color pairs and the
    regexp that matches determines the color. Useful if the data doesn't arrive in the same
    order, but you want to get the same color across multiple plots for better comparison.
  * *RgbInNameColorProvider*: Searches for RGB color definition in the plot name (eg for '#ff0000')
    which defines the color of the plot.

* *adams-compress:* added support for decompressing RAR archives with *UnRAR* transformer.
* *adams-spreadsheet:* added wrappers for array statistics to be applied to numeric spreadsheet 
  row/column.
* *adams-weka:* 

  * Added the *ClassifierCascade* meta-classifier, which is inspired by deeplearning,
    but uses off-the-shelf classifiers as ensemble in each layer.
  * The *WekaEvaluationPostProcessor* allows the application of post-processors to the collected 
    predictions (eg subrange evaluation).
  * Debugging now has an inspection handler for Weka *Evaluation* objects.
  * The *WekaEvaluationInfo* transformer outputs basic information for a Weka Evaluation object.

* *adams-latex:* added proper support for generating and compiling LaTeX documents (including BibTeX):

  * *NewLatexDocument* - creates a new document
  * *LatexAppendDocument* - appends to the document using a specified code generator
  * *LatexCloseDocument* - closes a document
  * *LatexCompile* - copmpiles an LaTeX document (automatically compiles BibTeX files as well)

* *adams-rats:* added remote commands *GetRatControlStatus* and *SendRatControlCommand* to
  remotely control *Rat* actors in flows.
* *adams-random:*

  * *ArrayRandomize* transformer randomizes a copy of an array.
  * The *RandomNumberGenerator* transformer replaces the incoming token with a random number.

* *adams-spectral-2dim:* Added transformer for removing a report value based on the supplied 
  boolean expression: *DeleteReportValueByExpression*

Have a good weekend!

