.. title: Updates 2017/04/21
.. slug: updates-2017-04-21
.. date: 2017-04-21 17:11:07 UTC+13:00
.. tags: 
.. category: 
.. link: 
.. description: 
.. type: text
.. author: FracPete

With Easter out of the way, it is time for an update. A lot of incremental improvements
as always, but noteworthy are the added *associator* support in the flow and Investigator,
additional paintlets allowing for more sophisticated *plots*, and *websocket* support.

**Fixes**

* Debugged flows that open another tab with the fully expanded flow (e.g., when using
  external actors) now show their variables correctly in the tree.
* *adams-weka:* The *ByNumericValue* row finder no longer skips non-missing values.


**Changes**

* *DOMToString* conversion now allows specification of number of spaces for indentation.
* JDBC URLs are now supported via *Favorites* in the GenericObjectEditor, e.g., used
  in the *DatabaseConnection* standalone actor (JdbcUrl type). The same applies to 
  BaseURL, BaseURI, BaseHostname, EmailAddress ByteFormatString, DateFormatString and
  DecimalFormatString types.
* The *SetVariable* standalone can initialize the specified variable now from an 
  environment variable. Useful when overriding flow defaults when running a flow
  from a script.
* When starting a flow, two boolean variables now get automatically added regarding
  the headless state of the execution: `is_headless`, `has_gui`
* Rendering spreadsheets when debugging a flow now offers a search box as well.
* *adams-latex:* Code generators now list in their help what packages they require.
* *adams-meka:* upgraded to MEKA 1.9.1.
* *adams-ml:* added ability to the *ActualVsPredictedPlot* sink to use meta-data color 
  schemes for coloring in the data points based on meta-data.
* *adams-net:* 
  
  * Upgraded *jsoup* dependency to 1.10.2
  * The *HttpRequest* source now allows specification of request headers.

* *adams-spreadsheet:* The *SpreadSheetSetCell* and *SpreadSheetSetHeaderCell* transformers
  now forward the sheet/row even if the columns/rows were not found, to avoid accidental
  stopping of processing of data.
* *adams-webservice:* 

  * The XML logging interceptors (in/out) now support pretty-printed XML
    and optional output to a log file.
  * Interceptor generators for SOAP messages now have an *enabled* flag to 
    easily turn them on/off without having to replace them.


**Additions**

* Added *PrettyPrintXML* conversion to make pretty-printing of XML easier (combines
  XMLToDOM and DOMToString).
* Introduced the *MetaDataColorPaintlet* interface for paintlets (e.g., use in the 
  *SequencePlotter* or *SimplePlot* sinks) that can extract the color to plot a sequence 
  point in from its meta-data.
* Added meta-paintlet *ByNamePaintlet* that only applies its base-paintlet if the ID 
  of the sequence matches the specified regular expression.
* Added meta-paintlet for drawing error data only if ID matches supplied regular 
  expression: *ByNameErrorPaintlet*.
* Enabled attaching of breakpoint to the selected actor while the flow is running
  using the *Attach here...* sub-menuitem of the *Breakpoint* menu in the Flow editor.
* Added support for *callable* database connections with the *CallableDatabaseConnection*
  standalone. This standalone simply references an actual *DatabaseConnection* which
  is listed below a *CallableActors* actor. This allows the centralization of database
  connections in a flow and then simply referencing them where needed.
* The *ListCallableActors* source actor outputs all the callable actors available within
  this particular scope. Useful when iterating over predefined setups (eg Weka classifiers).
* The *UpdateCallableDisplay* control actor forces a refresh of the specified callable 
  display actor whenever a token passes through.
* *adams-latex:*

  * The *ListRequiredLatexPackages* flow processor outputs all the required packages 
    found in a flow.
  * Added the *MiniPage* code generator.

* *adams-net:* 

  * Added the *HttpRequest* transformer which uploads the incoming string payload.
  * Added basic websocket support with *WebSocketServer* standalone and *WebSocketClient*
    sink actors.

* *adams-rats:* 

  * Added Rat output for websockets called *WebsocketOutput*.
  * Added a post-processing framework for webservice responses to the *Webservice* rat 
    output. Allows handling of, e.g., error messages returned by the other end of the
    webservice.

* *adams-spreadsheet:* 

  * The *ByNumericRange* row finder uses array of BaseInterval ranges, i.e., using 
    mathematical intervals like `[-1.0;3.5)`.
  * Added row finder for finding a row that comes closest to a supplied value: 
    *ClosestNumericValue*.

* *adams-weka:* 

  * Added the *WekaBootstrapping* transformer which performs bootstrapping on 
    incoming Evaluation objects/containers and outputs a spreadsheet with each row representing 
    the statistics collected from a subsample run.
  * The *ClassifierErrors* output if the Weka Investigator Classify tab now allows you to
    color in the data points using meta-data in conjunction with a meta-data-color scheme.
  * The *ByNumericRange* row finder uses array of BaseInterval ranges, i.e., using mathematical 
    intervals like `[-1.0;3.5)`.
  * Added basic associations support: *WekaAssociatorSetup* source and *WekaTrainAssociator* 
    transformer.
  * Added new pluggable metric for regression: *Bias* (mean(predicted) - mean(actual)),
    *R^2* ("r squared") for convenience.
  * Added the ability to perform *train/validate/test* evaluation to the classify tab
    of the Weka Investigator. The *validation* output gets inserted as separate history
    entry.
  * Added a dedicated *Associate* tab to Weka Investigator for building associators 
    like Apriori.

Have a good weekend!

Cheers, Peter
