.. title: Updates 2016/08/26
.. slug: updates-2016-08-26
.. date: 2016-08-26 15:27:07 UTC+13:00
.. tags: updates
.. category: 
.. link: 
.. description: 
.. type: text
.. author: FracPete

All lot of effort has gone into making ADAMS work in a headless environment,
like on a Linux server in the cloud. Thanks to `Lanterna <https://github.com/mabe02/lanterna>`__,
there is now a simple, terminal-based interface available for such environments. 
A number of interactive actors can be used in headless environments now as well.

**Fixes**

* The *ManageInteractiveActors* now enables/disables interactive actors correctly.


**Changes**

* Added support for interactive actors to be used in a headless environment
  (e.g., in a terminal on a server), with the following actors supporting this
  now: EnterValue, SelectCharset, SelectDateTime, SelectDirectory, SelectFile,
  WekaSelectDataset, ConfirmationDialog, PasteFromClipboard.
  The following actors can now ask for the password in the console as well:
  DatabaseConnection, FTPConnection, SMTPConnection, SSHConnection.
* The *adams.flow.FlowRunner* class now offers a ``-non-interactive`` flag,
  that ensures that all interactive actors avoid interaction with the user.
  Useful for flows that can be run with user interaction through GUI or command-line
  and also as background process.
* Added support for gzip-compressed Properties files: ``.props.gz``
* *adams-weka:* The *Weka Investigator* now has a *Cluster* tab as well as a tab
  in the system-wide *Preferences* (Program -> Preferences).


**Additions**

* Added support for customizable enumerations: ``adams.core.ConfigurableEnumeration``.
* The *adams.terminal.Main* class allows you to run flows in a terminal, i.e., without
  a graphical user interface. Useful when working in a headless environment, like
  remotely on Linux servers.
* Introduced a simple file manager called *File commander* inspired by th the
  `Midnight Commander <http://www.midnight-commander.org/>`__.
* *adams-imaging:* added *JpegIsComplete* file-use check algorithm, which determines
  whether a JPEG is fully written to disk.
* *adams-spreadsheet:* 

  * With the *SpreadSheetMatrixStatistic* you can now calculate statistics for a whole 
    spreadsheet (or a defined subset).
  * The *SimpleStreamSpreadSheetReader/Writer* pair allows you to store spreadsheet
    data alongside their types. Sparse format and chunking is supported as well.
  * With the *SpreadSheetToCreateTableStatement* conversion it is easy to create
    a SQL *CREATE TABLE* statement.

* *adams-weka:* With *WekaClusterAssignments* you can output the cluster assignments
  (i.e., which instance got assigned to what cluster) from the last evaluation as
  spreadsheet.

