.. title: Updates 2024/07/17
.. slug: updates-2024-07-17
.. date: 2024-07-17 16:41:00 UTC+12:00
.. tags: 
.. status: 
.. category: 
.. link: 
.. description: 
.. type: text
.. author: FracPete

This time round, there have been a bunch of important bug-fixes and additions. The Weka Investigator
can now perform repeated cross-validation, calculating statistics across the runs (the Experimenter
does this per fold, the Investigator per full CV) and also a new tab for executing an experiment run
on the current dataset and the chosen classifier.

Last, but not least, ADAMS turned 15 today (first commit in 2009). :-)


**Fixes**

* *adams-pdf:* PDF fonts now properly parse the attributes in the font string 
  (Arrays.binarySearch on unsorted array returned invalid index for Italic).
* *adams-weka* and *adams-weka-lts*: 

  * The Multi-Experimenter now sorts the results according to dataset/classifier order (dataset first).
  * Leave-one-out cross-validation (LOOCV) now works correctly in the Multi-Experimenter.
  * The *Rename...* action for renaming a column of an InstancesTable now uses the correct column index.
  * Changed the R^2 calculation to https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Coefficient_of_determination#Definitions


**Changes**

* *adams-core:* 

  * spreadsheet formulas can now use *median* as well
  * upgraded commons-io to 2.16.1

* *adams-imaging:* 

  * upgraded opex4j to 0.0.3
  * the *ObjectCentersFromReport* plugin in the Preview browser now allows changing the report reader
  * object finders now have a *quiet* flag to suppress warnings about -1 indices

* *adams-spreadsheet:*

  * The *SpreadSheetAggregate* transformer now offers the 25th and 75th quartile as well.

* *adams-weka* and *adams-weka-lts*: 

  * upgraded common-csv-weka-package to 2024.7.5


**Additions**

* *adams-imaging:*

  * The image object filter *ObjectsInPolygon* finds annotations that fall within the specified polygon.
  * The *CountObjectsInPolygon* transformer outputs the number of annotations that fall within the
    specified polygon.

* *adams-weka* and *adams-weka-lts*:

  * Added support for repeated cross-validation to the *Weka Investigator*. 
    See this video: https://youtu.be/ZlbynLCq8mc?si=HEkY0I_rQyaq6mD0
  * Added an *Experiment* tab to the *Weka Investigator* for evaluating single classifier on selected dataset. 
    See this video: https://youtu.be/bVid9WrpE0s?si=KJcyUT33RbGiVF89

