.. title: Updates 2016/12/02
.. slug: updates-2016-12-02
.. date: 2016-12-02 12:47:07 UTC+13:00
.. tags: 
.. category: 
.. link: 
.. description: 
.. type: text
.. author: FracPete

Initially, I had a release planned for this week, but with a plethora of minor bug
fixes/UI improvements happening and other projects demanding time, I had to abandon 
this plan. Hopefully, this will eventuate next week instead.

**Fixes**

* Interactive actors now call the root actor's stopExecution method instead of 
  their own, in order to stop the flow.
* The *SelectArraySubset* interactive transformer now updates the message label 
  with each interaction and double-clicking on an item automatically selects it 
  and accepts the dialog.
* Spreadsheet tables now interpret *Long* cell values as *Double*, in order to get 
  correct sorting of columns with mixed Long/Double values.
* *adams-weka:* Fixed the batch-filtering functionality of the *Weka Investigator's*
  preprocess tab.


**Changes**

* The *ImageViewer* sink now accepts objects implementing *BufferedImageSupporter* as well.
* *adams-spectral-core* has been renamed to *adams-spectral-2dim* (as it is
  for 2-dimensional spectra).
* *adams-weka:*

  * *Weka Investigator*:

    * Start buttons now display a tooltip if disabled, explaining why process 
      cannot be started (hover over the button to display it).
    * PCA tab now offers checkbox for skipping nominal attributes.
    * Closing a tab now prompts the user whether to go ahead with it (to avoid
      losses of tabs when quickly switching between them and accidentally hitting
      the close button).
    * The *ClassifierErrors* output generator now allows anti-aliasing to be
      configured (default is *Auto*, i.e., if more than 1000 datapoints, it gets
      turned off to speed up the plot).

  * The unsupervised instance-based filters *DatasetCleaner* and *DatasetLabeler*
    now have the additional flag *-only-first-batch*, which applies the filter
    only to the first batch of the data.


**Additions**

* Added *RomanToInt* and *IntToRoman* conversions for handling Roman numerals.
* Added Kendall-Theil robust regression calculation: ArrayKendallTheil, 
  StatUtils.kendallTheil, KendallTheilOverlayPaintlet.
* Added the *BufferedImageSupporterToBufferedImageContainer* conversion
  to allow attaching of metadata.
* Added meta-data text overlay for images, e.g., used in the *ImageViewer* sink:
  MetaDataText.
* The *SetContainerValue* control actor allows updating of a single container 
  value, using data from either a callable actor or storage.
* *adams-ml:* 

  * The *PredictionEccentricity* transformer allows the calculation 
    of the eccentricity for the predictions generated by a regressor.
  * The *ActualVsPredictedPlot* sink now implements *AntiAliasingSupporter*,
    i.e., you can turn on/off anti-aliasing for pretty/fast plots.

* *adams-spectral-2dim:*

  * Added *PLS* spectrum batch filter, which makes use of the new PLS algorithm
    class hierarchy to transform the spectral data.
  * Added *PCA* spectrum batch filter.

* *adams-spreadsheet:*

  * The *JFreeChartPlot* sink allows plots from spreadsheet columns using
    JFreeChart plot library and the *JFreeChartFileWriter* outputs image files
    from generated plots.
  * The *Spreadsheet file viewer* now has a chart plugin using JFreeChart.

* *adams-weka*:

  * Added *WekaGenericPLSMatrixAccess* transformer which gives access to internal
    PLS matrices of the new AbstractPLS class hierarchy.
  * PLS-based classifier that uses the new PLS class hierarchy: 
    *weka.classifiers.functions.PLSWeighted*.
  * The classify/cluster tab in the *Weka Investigator* now have *Build model* evaluations 
    that just generate a model and save it to disk.
  * The *Data* table of the *Weka Investigator* now has a plugin for plotting using JFreeChart.
  * The *WekaSpreadSheetToPredictions* transformer allows the recreation of an 
    Evaluation object simply from predictions of a model (actual/predicted).
  * *weka.filters.FilteredFilter* is a filter for applying a pre-filter to the data before 
    using the main filter (eg for selecting a subset).
  * The *Weka Investigator* now offers an output generator for displaying/calculating
    the *Prediction Eccentricity* of the predictions (*Classify* tab, numeric classes only).
  * It is now possible to compare the predictions of two models evaluated in the same way 
    on the same dataset (with a numeric class) through the *Compare models* menu item in
    the result history of the *Classify* tab of the *Weka Investigator*.

