.. title: Updates 2017/05/12
.. slug: updates-2017-05-12
.. date: 2017-05-12 17:02:07 UTC+13:00
.. tags: 
.. category: 
.. link: 
.. description: 
.. type: text
.. author: FracPete

Being busy with commercial ADAMS projects still result in ample number of improvements
to the base ADAMS system. The last few weeks were no exception.

**Fixes**

* The table model for spreadsheets now displays NaN, +/-Infinity as strings.
* Spreadsheet writers that can use formatting now use 'NaN' and '+/-Infinity'
  strings for these numbers.
* Fixed the *forceVariables* method for *Tee/Trigger/LoadBalancer/WhileLoop*
  and derived actors: internally used *Sequence* actor gets updated correctly now.
* *adams-net:* *FTPSend* and *SFTPSend* now forward the successful filenames as the
  documentation says.
* *adams-dl4j:* fixed handling of regression problems.


**Changes**

* In order to make actor names unique, they now get appended by * (x)* with x being 
  a number starting from 2
* The *SetVariable* standalone/transformer can interpret the variable value now
  as boolean, string or mathematical expression, making it easier to compute new values.
* Added ability to use custom dirs/jars for *JDeps* control actor instead of the 
  application's classpath.
* The *CallableActorScreenshot* control can forward screenshot as *BufferedImageContainer* 
  now as well, not just storing it in a file.
* The *actorFile* property can contain now programmatically set variables like ``flow_dir``, 
  enabling the *include external actor* derived actors to make use of a variable as well 
  (relative to the main flow). Instead of attaching a variable to the property, you have to
  use *mixed* notation: ``@{flow_dir}/some.flow``.
* Added *equal frequency* calculation to the *ArrayHistogram* statistic.
* The *RandomNumberGenerator* source can output arrays now.
* With the *ArrayHistogramRanges* transformer it is possible to output the interval ranges
  that the *ArrayHistogram* statistic generates (easier than iterating through the header
  names of the generated spreadsheet).
* Added support for *restorable actors*, ones that can write/read their state to/from disk 
  during execution; currently supported by: EnterValue, EnterManyValues, SelectDirectory, 
  SelectFile.
* *adams-spreadsheet:* 

  * *SpreadSheetStatistic* now supports column names in locations.
  * *SpreadSheetExtractArray* can output strings now as well, instead of just the 
    native cell object type.

* *adams-weka:* 

  * *WekaInstancesStatistic* now supports attribute names in locations.
  * The *WekaGeneticAlgorithm* transformer can be initialized from a *WekaGeneticAlgorithmInitializationContainer*
    container now, containing algorithm and training data.

* *adams-spectral-2dim* got renamed to *adams-spectral-2dim-core*.


**Additions**

* Added *HasClass* boolean condition that checks whether the specified class is
  available on the classpath.
* Added *StringExpression* source and transformer for evaluation string processing 
  expressions, like ``left(upper("Hello World!"), 5)``.
* Added meta-marker paintlet *ByNameMarkerPaintlet* that matches the name of the 
  sequence against the supplied regular expression to determine whether to paint 
  the markers or not.
* With the *ArrayHistogramRanges* transformer it is possible to output the interval ranges
  that the *ArrayHistogram* statistic generates (easier than iterating through the header
  names of the generated spreadsheet).
* *adams-pdf:* added *MetaHeadline* PDF proclet to insert headline and then apply 
  a base-proclet.
* *adams-spreadsheet:* the *SpreadSheetHistogramRanges* transformer is the equivalent
  of *ArrayHistogramRanges* but for SpreadSheet objects.
* *adams-weka:* 

  * The *WekaInstancesHistogramRanges* transformer is the equivalent
    of *ArrayHistogramRanges* but for Instances objects.
  * Added support for using test data to the *WekaGeneticAlgorithm* transformer, but 
    only Hermione takes advantage of it.
  * Added convenience transformer *WekaGeneticAlgorithmInitializer* to generate a
    *WekaGeneticAlgorithmInitializationContainer* container for priming a genetic algorithm.

* Added some modules to the *adams-spectral-base* framwork:

  * *adams-spectral-2dim-handheld* contains support for some handheld NIR scanners, 
    like the SCiO (https://www.consumerphysics.com/myscio/scio/).
  * *adams-spectral-2dim-webservice* adds webservice capability
  * *adams-spectral-2dim-rats* adds RATS support

Have a great weekend!

