.. title: Updates 2020/06/21
.. slug: updates-2020-06-21
.. date: 2020-06-21 15:10:00 UTC+13:00
.. tags: 
.. status: 
.. category: 
.. link: 
.. description: 
.. type: text
.. author: FracPete

Over last few months, I was working mainly on image processing projects, which
explains the large amount of imaging related additions and changes. One other
big change was happening underneath the hood, abstracting class loading and
deep copies, in order to get Weka package support working again (Weka's isolating 
classloader doesn't make it easy integrating Weka in other applications).

**Fixes**

* Added the *ArrayRSquared* array statistic.
* The *ConfirmationDialog* transformer no longer blocks the Flow editor window, i.e.,
  it is now possible to stop the flow via the Flow editor's menu.
* The control actors *CloseCallableDisplay* and *CallableActorScreenshot* now allow
  selecting top-level *GridView* and *TabView* instances as well.
* Validating a flow now sets all the programmatic variables (like 'flow_dir') beforehand
  (if possible) to ensure correct execution.
* The GOE editor for *BaseClassname* now lists all classes, including non-ADAMS 
  and abstract ones, but excluding anonymous ones.
* *adams-imaging:* 

  * Keeping of all objects did not work properly in the *ImageObjectFilter* 
    transformer, as indices could change due to filtering, resulting in an inconsistent 
    mix of values in the report.
  * Fixed the *compare with itself* comparison of the *DetermineOverlappingObjects*
    transformer.
  * The logging of interactions is now properly filtered by the interaction loggers 
    used by the *ImageAnnotator*.
  * fixed collecting of matches in *AreaRatio* and *IntersectOverUnionRatio* object
    overlap schemes: the order of objects could leave out matches as the currently 
    highest value was used as threshold rather than the user-supplied threshold.

* *adams-weka* and *adams-weka-lts*: The R^2 now uses the same approach like R for
  calculating the statistic.
* *adams-ml:* The *INTERSECT* mode of *MultiOutlierDetector* now works correctly 
  (used by RemoveOutliers control actor).


**Changes**

* The *Flow* control actor now has a *read-only* flag. When checked, it will prompt 
  the user wether to continue with editing, just viewing or cancelling the operation
  altogether.
* The *ConfirmationDialog* now allows specifying a custom *cancel* token as well.
* Upgraded *java-cup* to 11b-20160615 and switched from *exec-maven-plugin* to 
  *parsergen-maven-plugin* for compiling java-cup/jflex parsers.
* The *MapToVariables* transformer can suppress non-primitive objects getting
  turned into variables with the *skipNonPrimitive* option.
* The *SetVariable* transformer now allows forwarding the current variable value
  instead of the input token with the *outputValue* option. Useful when constructing
  file names on the fly via variable expansion.
* major class instantiation overhaul to add support for Weka packages again: 
  *adams.core.classmanager.ClassManager* and the concrete *CustomClassManager*
  classes (ADAMS and Weka) are now responsible for instantiating a class from 
  a classname and for generating deep copies of objects
* The *EnterValue* source now can specify how large (cols/rows) the text box is,
  e.g., for entering multi-line text.
* *adams-imaging:* 
   
  * The *CompareObjectLocations* transformer now has the ability to 
    forward screenshots of comparison to a queue and run in non-interactive mode.
  * The *STARTING_WITH* option for loading associated meta-data with the 
    *ImageFileReader* now skips all the files that have an extension that the
    image reader itself manages.
  * The preview handlers *ObjectLocationsFromReport* and *ObjectLocationsFromSpreadsheet*
    can remove overlapping objects now as well.
  * upgraded Apache's commons-imaging to 1.0-alpha1
  * removed Apache Sanselan 

* *adams-spreadsheet:* 

  * The *LookUpAdd* transformer now has an optional conversion for the value 
    being stored in the look-up table.
  * The *SpreadSheetInfo* transformer can output the unique values across the sheet
    now as well (*SHEET_VALUES*).

* *adams-visualstats:* The *Histogram* and *ScatterDisplay* sinks can export the plot
  data now as CSV files.
* *adams-weka* and *adams-weka-lts*: The *WekaAttributeSelection* transformer now 
  reduces/transforms the test set from a *WekaTrainTestSetContainer* as well (if not 
  performing cross-valication) and stores the result in the outgoing container.
* *adams-net:* upgraded requests4j library to 0.1.7
* *adams-rsync:* upgraded rysnc4j library to 3.1.3-1
* *adams-ml-app:* added *adams-nlp* module as dependency


**Additions**

* The *DirectorySupplier* source allows selecting/outputting of multiple directories, 
  analog to the *FileSupplier* source.
* The *FilterMap* can be used for filtering Map objects using the specified filter.
* Added inspection handlers for java.util.Map and java.util.List to the Flow debugger.
* The *EnterManyValues* source allows users now to select enumeration values via the
  *EnumValueDefinition* class.
* *adams-imaging:* 

  * added the following object filters: *AttachMetaData* (attaches single meta-data 
    key-value pair to all located objects), *MakeSquare* (turns the bounding box into
    a square one), *RemovePolygons* (removes polygon information from objects, eg for 
    enforcing bounding box display).
  * The *ClipBoundingBoxes* image object filter fixes bounding boxes that *stick out of*
    the image boundaries (or removes them completely if width/height are zero).
  * The *TransformMetaData* image object filter allows you to pass meta-data through
    callable actors, e.g., for cleaning up.
  * The *RenameLabels* image object filter allows you to quickly rename labels, e.g.,
    for collapsing multiple categories into a single one.
  * Added *CocoAnnotationsReportReader* and *CocoAnnotationsHandler* (Preview browser),
    which supercede their *Detectron* counter parts. The report reader is optimized for
    speed and the Preview browser handler caches the JSON files it read (and monitors,
    if these should change), allowing for rapid browsing of directories with lots of 
    images and multiple JSON files.
  * The *GrayOrIndexedColorizer* BufferedImage transformer and the *GrayOrIndexedImageHandler*
    allow overriding the unique colors in the image with custom ones using the 
    supplied color provider (eg when viewing PNGs used for image segmentation).
  * The *AnnotationsAndPredictions* draw operations allows overlaying annotations 
    and predictions using reports from storage, simplifying the combining.
  * added support for reading PNGs as spreadsheet (eg for reading indexed PNG files)
    using the *PNGSpreadSheetReader*.
  * The *ImageContainerToSpreadSheet* conversion turns any image into a spreadsheet
    of its (A)RGB values.
  * Added the *KeepHighestMetaDataValue* scheme for removing overlapping objects
    (eg for post-processing predictions) - used in conjunction with the 
    *RemoveOverlappingImageObjects* transformer.

* *adams-ml:* Added the *MeanAbsoluteError* outlier detector (used by the RemoveOutliers 
  control actor).

