.. title: Updates 2020/01/28
.. slug: updates-2020-01-28
.. date: 2020-01-28 09:30:00 UTC+13:00
.. tags: 
.. status: 
.. category: 
.. link: 
.. description: 
.. type: text
.. author: FracPete

Minor update post before the 20.1.1 bugfix release (which includes these changes)...

**Fixes**

* The enum editor in the GenericObjectEditor now allows entering multiple values as text.
* *adams-addons-all:* The static class discovery now works properly.
* *adams-weka* and *adams-weka-lts*: Re-enabled the residual plot plugins in the Weka Investigator.
* *adams-imaging:* The *SelectObjects* image plugin (used for annotating images) now rejects 
  selected objects that have either width or height equal to zero (which can occur easily when 
  using a stylus).


**Changes**

* *Object editor:* added a button with drop-down menu to the PropertySheet panel for quick access 
  to variable actions, rather than right-clicking on label; also functions as indicator whether 
  variable is attached by changing color.
* *adams-tensorflow:* switched from wai.tfrecords to wai.annotations library for generating TFRecords.
* *adams-weka:* upgraded Weka to 3.9.4-fork-0.0.1
* *adams-weka* and *adams-weka-lts*: The split action in the *Weka Investigator* has been generalized
  and now allows the use of any split generator available.


**Additions**

* *adams-spectral-2dim-core:* The *ArrayToSpectrum* conversion converts a float array of amplitudes
  back into a Spectrum object.
* *adams-weka* and *adams-weka-lts*: Added the *Discard predictions* menu item to the result history
  of the Classify tab in the Weka Investigator.

