.. title: Updates 2023/08/11
.. slug: updates-2023-08-11
.. date: 2023-08-11 15:30:00 UTC+12:00
.. tags: updates
.. status: 
.. category: 
.. link: 
.. description: 
.. type: text
.. author: FracPete

A lot of different changes have ocurred over the last few months. There are two
that stand out. First, docker related: images now get published under the 
*waikatodatamining* user; overhaul of how flows are used within docker images 
and updated documentation on website accordingly. Second, some interactive sources
like *EnterValue* or the boolean condition *PromptUser* can now be displayed as a
panel in the notification area rather than as a separate dialog. That way, dialogs
will stay with the particular flow editor panel, even when starting multiple flows
at the same time (which is also a new feature).

Full list of changes is below:

**Fixes**

* Swapping a *SelectFile* source with a *EnterManyValues* now transfers any extensions 
  (or attached variable) as well.
* When selecting *Save report* from a report table with the *Edit options* box ticked, 
  the writer's options dialog will only get displayed once now.
* Fixed source of memory leaks with the recent files handlers (handlers are now always 
  set/get as shallow copies).
* *AbstractTee*, *LoadBalancer*, *LocalScopeTransformer* and *WhileLoop* now set the skip
  flag also in the underlying Sequence actor that manages their actors.
* The *AbstractDataContainerFileWriter* (e.g., the SpectrumFileWriter is derived from that)
  now ensures that the filename generated from the samepl ID is a valid filename.
* *adams-weka* and *adams-weka-lts*: data loaded into the Weka Investigator now adhers
  to the Investigator-wide undo state.
* When in headless mode, entering values in the terminal via *EnterValue* and *EnterManyValues*
  now makes use of provided initial values when simply pressing ENTER.
* Added support for environment variables ADAMS_USERNAME, ADAMS_USERHOME, ADAMS_USERDIR 
  to override system properties user.name, user.home and user.dir respectively. The
  ADAMS_PLACEHOLDERS variables allows setting/overriding of placeholder definitions.
  Values in ADAMS-managed properties files can be overridden as well (check the adams-core
  manual for details, section *Environment variables*).
* *adams-rats-core:* The *RatControl* now skips ConsolePanel calls when in headless mode.


**Changes**

* Improved clearing of graphical displays (via: File - Clear).
* The *Downloads > Docker* documentation has been updated and expanded to fit the updated
  Docker images.

* *adams-core:* 

  * The *AbstractDataContainerFileReader* transformer ancestor (e.g., for SpectrumFileReader)
    now supports output of the containers as an array instead of just one-by-one.
  * Added the ability to pause/resume or stop the flow from graphical actor dialogs via an 
    optional flow control sub-menu. This is useful for flows that get launched with FlowRunner
    and do not have the typical Flow editor interface. Requires EXPERT user mode.
  * The *Statistics* menu item in the Flow editor now displays the results in the side panel
    rather than in a separate dialog.
  * The *Flow Editor* now has the additional *Run all* and *Stop all* menu items/toolbar buttons.
  * The *Active* menu and toolbar buttons in the *Flow Editor* are now hidden if no flow set as active.
  * The *FlowRunner* how has the -force-exit flag to properly exit the process in case 3rd-party 
    library threads keep the application from exiting.
  * The *PromptUser* boolean flow condition can run in headless mode now as well and also be displayed
    in the notification area rather than as a dialog.
  * The *EnterValue*, *EnterManyValues*, *SelectDirectory* and *SelectFile* sources can be displayed 
    in the notification area as well, not just as dialog.
  * added interfaces StringReportReader/Writer to allow them being used by the *ReportToString/StringToReport* 
    conversions to perform conversions on the fly rather than via temp files.
  * Added MSECS_LONG, SECONDS_LONG, JULIANDATE_LONG and SERIAL_DATETIME_LONG as date time types, 
    affecting conversions ConvertDateTimeType, DateTimeTypeToString, ExtractDateTimeField, 
    StringToDateTimeType and transformer DateTimeTypeDifference.
  * The *MathExpression* transformer now accepts Byte/Short/Float/Number as well

* *adams-db*: upgraded sqlite-jdbc to 3.41.2.2.
* *adams-imaging:* 

  * The *ImageInfo* transformer can output the image type and pixel depth now as well.
  * The *Regions* sub-images generator now stores the region coordinates in the report 
    of the sub-image as well ("Coordinates[S]").
  * Object finders now have the *resetIndicesIfNecessary* flag that automatically 
    resets the indices when there are missing or duplicate ones.

* *adams-moa:* upgraded MOA to 2023.04.0.
* *adams-net:* 

  * The *DownloadContent* transformer and *DownloadFile* sink now stop active downloads 
    when the flow is being stopped.
  * Upgraded jsch dependency to 0.2.9
  * The *SSHConnection* standalone now allows specifying a timeout (in milliseconds).

* *adams-rsync:* Upgraded rsync4j to 3.2.7-2
* *adams-weka* and *adams-weka-lts*: 

  * When specifying an ID attribute with the *WekaInstanceViewer* sink then this
    attribute gets automatically excluded from the plot (avoids distorting the graph).
  * Weka Investigator: memory clean-up improvements.
  * Upgraded Weka versions: weka==3.9.6-fork-0.0.2, weka-lts==3.9.0-fork-0.0.13

* *Docker images* are now available from: https://hub.docker.com/u/waikatodatamining


**Additions**

* *adams-core:*

  * Added the *FileComplete* boolean condition to allow checks whether a file is complete.
  * The *BytesComplete* boolean condition applies the *file complete* check class hierarchy
    to byte arrays.
  * The *DeleteMapValue* transformer removes a key-value pair from a Java Map object.
  * The *DeletePropertyValue* transformer removes a property from a Java Properties object.
  * The *Flow editor* now has a *Recent* sub-menu in the *Edit* menu for recently used
    actor processors.
  * The *SimpleLogging* sink allows the formatted/timestamped output of objects received.
  * The *FileIncomplete* file use plugin makes all the file complete checks available.
  * Added unseeded number generators for doubles and integers: JavaRandomDoubleUnseeded, JavaRandomIntUnseeded.
  * The *TextRenderer* conversion is the equivalent of the TextRenderer transformer.
  * The *ArrayToVariables* transformer maps the elements of the incoming array to the
    specified variables. Useful when mapping fixed-length arrays such as coordinates
    onto variables.
  * The *CurrentTime* source outputs the current time as either milli-seconds or nano-seconds.
  * The *ObjectPreview* sink makes use of the *Preview browser's* handlers that can handle 
    objects as well, not just files.
  * Added the *JavaRandomByte/Unseeded* random number generators for generating a sequence of bytes.

* *adams-imaging:*

  * Added the *JPEG* and *PNG* file complete plugins.
  * Added the *ByteArrayToImageContainer* and *ImageContainerToByteArray* conversions, which
    use the specified image reader/writer to manage the byte array.
  * Added the *ObjectAnnotationsReportHandler* for displaying the annoations over an empty
    image (useful for just visualizing annotation files).

* *adams-json:* 

  * Added the *NewJsonStructure* source for creating empty JSON objects or arrays.
  * Added the *DeleteJsonValue* transformer for removing key/value pairs from JSON objects.
  * Added the *JSON* file complete check plugin.

* *adams-net:*

  * Added the *Html4Display* sink for displaying HTML 4 code (supports custom CSS rules).

* *adams-spectral-2dim-core:*

  * With the *FilteredSpetrumReader* and *FilteredSpectrumWriter* it is now possible to
    apply a spectrum filter within a reader/writer. Useful when working outside flows,
    like in the Spectrum Explorer (loading/saving spectra).

* *adams-weka* and *adams-weka-lts*:

  * The *SimpleDetrend* filter works like the *Detrend* one but does not require the attributes
    to contain the wave number. Instead it just uses the positional index within the set of
    specified attributes.

* *adams-xml:* Added the *XML* file complete check plugin.

