.. title: Updates 2019/07/10
.. slug: updates-2019-07-10
.. date: 2019-07-10 14:42:00 UTC+12:00
.. tags: 
.. status: 
.. category: 
.. link: 
.. description: 
.. type: text
.. author: FracPete

It is not about quantity in this update, but more about the importance of the changes.

After several weeks of incremental development and testing, I have pushed out changes
regarding random split and cross-validation fold generation. To avoid duplication of
code, I implemented a general framework for such operations, which is now utilized
across the board (which also fixes some bugs).

**Fixes**

* The transformers *BaseName* and *DirName* now handle placeholder abbreviations ("${...}")
  correctly.
* *adams-weka* and *adams-weka-lts*: by moving to the generalized framework for random 
  split and cross-validation fold generation, a number of bugs in aligning additional
  attributes to predictions have been fixed.


**Changes**

* upgraded jshell-scripting to 0.1.0.
* upgraded pdfbox to 2.0.16 to address https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2019-0228
* *adams-ml:* the file-based dataset preparation schemes for train test split and
  cross-validation now make use of the new generalized framework for such operations.
* *adams-weka* and *adams-weka-lts*: the random split and cross-validation fold 
  generators (both default and grouped) now make use of the new generalized framework 
  for such operations.


**Additions**

* *adams-ml:* added a generalized framework for random split and cross-validation fold
  generation, to be utilized in other data domains. Makes use of the work implemented
  for binning algorithms.

